 CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. Close Ad Feedback xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"? The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms More The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms Audio Live TV Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms Follow CNN Politics World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Olympics US Sports Climbing Motorsport Formula E Esports Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa 2 Degrees CNN Heroes All Features Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN U.S. warns Russia: More sanctions coming due to Ukraine crisis Tom Cohen and Tom Watkins , CNN Updated 5:31 PM EDT, Tue March 18, 2014 Link Copied! Ad Feedback Video Ad Feedback 02:08 - Source: CNN Ukraine: Robbery on international scale Story highlights NEW: Secretary Kerry calls latest Russian moves concerning President Obama seeks a G7 meeting next week about Ukraine Vice President Biden calls the Crimea situation a "land grab" Moscow's isolation will only grow unless Putin changes course, Biden says CNN — It’s time for the United States and its European allies to raise or fold. Russian President Vladimir Putin clearly called their bluff on Tuesday, announcing steps for his country to annex the Crimean Peninsula from neighboring Ukraine. President Barack Obama and European allies had warned such a move would bring tougher sanctions and diplomatic isolation, but there was little immediate response Tuesday to Putin’s bold pronouncement in the Russian parliament. The White House announced that Obama invited leaders of the G7 industrial powers to meet next week on the sidelines of a nuclear security summit in the Netherlands to discuss the Ukraine crisis. US President Barack Obama (R) listens to Russian President Vladimir Putin during a bilateral meeting in Los Cabos on June 18, 2012 on the sidelines of the G20 summit. Jewel Samad/AFP/Getty Images/File video Inside Politics: U.S. options on Ukraine watson.ukraine.crimea.reax_00014907.jpg video Ukraine: Crimea still Ukrainian territory Presumably, such a gathering by Obama and his counterparts from Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and Canada would consider scrapping their annual summit with Russia planned for July in Sochi, and perhaps kicking Putin out of the G8 club altogether. Both moves have been threatened, with the G7 nations already halting preparations for the Sochi meeting. G8 summit in doubt? White House spokesman Jay Carney strongly hinted Tuesday that it would get scrapped, telling reporters that “preparations for that summit have been suspended, summits don’t occur without preparations” and “those preparations look unlikely to resume any time soon.” On Monday, Obama and the European Union imposed sanctions on specific Russian and Crimean officials as part of steps intended to be easily expanded if necessary. Carney said the moves already hurt the Russian economy and the ruble currency, and he indicated further actions were coming. “You have seen some designations already and there are more to come,” he said of individuals cited for sanctions. “I wouldn’t, if I were you, invest in Russian equities right now unless you were going short,” Carney advised, in reference to investors speculating on a losing venture. However, Carney made clear that the U.S. approach focused for now on isolating Russia diplomatically and economically. “This action – the results of the referendum and the attempts to annex a region of Ukraine illegally – will never be recognized by the United States” and the international community, he said, with “further actions, further provocations” by Russia leading to “higher costs.” Secretary of State John Kerry had a more reflective take, telling a town hall-style meeting that the administration still hoped for a diplomatic solution “but today was very confrontational and very triumphalist about something that is a breach of international law, and I think people are deeply concerned about it.” Biden: Crimea was a “land grab” Meanwhile, Vice President Joe Biden began a tour of former Soviet bloc nations now NATO allies by pledging the full support of the strategic alliance against any Russian aggression similar to what has occurred in Ukraine. “Our intent is that NATO emerge from this crisis stronger and more unified than ever,” Biden said at his first stop in Warsaw. “Our commitment is absolutely unwavering and unshakeable.” He noted the United States deployed more jet fighters in the region to bolster NATO air policing, and he called Putin’s moves to add Crimea to the Russian Federation a “blatant, blatant violation of international law” and “nothing more than a land grab.” Speaking to reporters at a joint news conference with Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk, Biden said Russia responded to Ukraine’s efforts to realize a more democratic future “with a brazen, brazen military incursion, with a purposeful ratcheting up of ethnic tensions inside Ukraine, with a rushed and illegal referendum in Crimea that was, not surprisingly, rejected by virtually the entire world.” Biden also warned Moscow that its political and economic isolation will increase if it continues such aggression, and he reiterated support for Ukraine in the form of a billion-dollar loan guarantee as well as technical assistance to prepare for elections and support for reforms that will allow the International Monetary Fund to provide a stabilization package to the cash-strapped country. The vice president’s visit comes two days before European Union leaders will meet in Brussels for talks certain to include the Ukraine crisis. Putin unfazed so far For his part, Putin appeared unfazed by the initial U.S. and EU steps, telling the parliament on Tuesday that Russia already races lingering sanctions from the Cold War that still exist in practice. He called the events that led to last month’s ouster of Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych a “state coup” carried out through “terror and murders and pogroms” by “Russiaphobes and anti-Semites.” The United States rejects Putin’s characterization of the Ukraine political upheaval, instead calling it a demonstration of democratic aspirations by the Ukrainian people. Underlying the conflict was Yanukovych’s moves prior to his ouster to align more closely with Moscow instead of proceeding with a shift toward closer association with the EU. Opinion: Obama can’t have it both ways on Crimea GOP critics at home At home, Obama has come under criticism from Republicans who complain an unwillingness by the administration to take on Putin on other issues has now emboldened the Russian leader. Conservative Sen. John McCain of Arizona called for more sanctions against Russia and increased assistance for Ukraine, a stance backed by House Majority Leader Eric Cantor of Virginia. “I support the President’s decision to issue sanctions against Russian leaders, but that list must be dramatically expanded to exert real pressure,” Cantor said Tuesday, also urging that Russia be kicked out of G8 and for the United States to provide military support needed by Ukraine. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Olympics US Sports Climbing Motorsport Formula E Esports Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa 2 Degrees CNN Heroes All Features Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"? Audio Live TV Follow CNN Politics Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2022 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. 