World Africa Americas Asia Australia More China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Audio Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Search Audio Edition U.S. International Arabic Español Edition U.S. International Arabic Español US Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food and Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Audio CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Coupons Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Follow CNN October 7, 2022 Russia-Ukraine news By Tara Subramaniam , Sana Noor Haq, Adrienne Vogt and Aditi Sangal , CNN Updated 7:54 PM ET, Fri October 7, 2022 What we covered Ukraine’s offensive is pressing ahead in regions Russia claims it is annexing , with President Zelensky saying forces have retaken more than 500 square kilometers (about 193 square miles) of territory in the southern Kherson region since Oct. 1. The death toll from Moscow’s missile attacks Thursday on a residential area in the southern Ukrainian-controlled city of Zaporizhzhia climbed to 14 . The attacks occurred shortly after the Kremlin moved to take control of the nearby nuclear power, which is in territory Russia declared it is annexing in violation of international law. President Joe Biden warned a tactical nuclear attack by Moscow could lead to "Armageddon," though a White House official later said no change had been seen in Russia's nuclear posture. An exclusive CNN investigation revealed that Russia's Wagner mercenaries are suffering from low morale and supply issues. 35 Posts Sort by Latest Oldest 7:26 p.m. ET, October 7, 2022 Our coverage for the day has ended. Follow the latest Ukraine news here or read through the updates below. 7:00 p.m. ET, October 7, 2022 St. Petersburg cancels New Year’s Eve celebration to donate to mobilized soldiers From CNN's Josh Pennington and Philip Wang St. Petersburg canceled its New Year’s Eve celebration and will donate the money to “purchase additional gear and equipment for volunteers and mobilized units,” the mayor announced on Thursday. The decision was made “after a meeting with members of the city government,” the mayor of Russia's second-largest city said on social media. Events for families with children and the traditional children's Christmas tree will take place as scheduled, the city said. On Friday, Russia’s Defense Ministry urged cities not to cancel their New Year’s festivities. In a statement, Deputy Minister of Defense Col. Gen. Viktor Goremykin called the decision to cancel “premature and unnecessary.” “Our Armed Forces today have all the equipment they need, all units and every serviceman have been provided in full, both in the arena of the Special Military Operation and in the training areas for mobilized citizens, ” Goremykin added. 6:53 p.m. ET, October 7, 2022 Putin wants to negotiate a new "grand bargain" between Russia and the West, Turkish official says From CNN’s Niamh Kennedy and Jaya Sharma It looks inevitable that Russia's war in Ukraine will continue for some time -- and the question is how much damage will have occurred before negotiations resume, according to a spokesperson for Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Turkey, while critical of the Russian invasion and President Vladimir Putin's recent move to annex territories in Ukraine, has maintained good relations with the Kremlin and brokered an agreement this summer to allow grain shipments from Ukrainian ports. Earlier on Friday, Erdogan spoke with Putin about the "latest developments" in the war in Ukraine, according to a readout from the Turkish government. His spokesperson, Ibrahim Kalin, told CNN that negotiations will likely resume at some point. "The question is: When we will come back to it and how much damage will have been done by then?” Kalin said during an interview with CNN’s Isa Soares. Negotiation ground to a halt after Russia’s annexation of four Ukrainian regions last week, with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky going so far as signing a decree declaring negotiations impossible. The decree, published on the Ukrainian Presidency’s website, declared "the impossibility of holding negotiations with the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin." It was dated Sept. 30, the day on which Putin announced that he would illegally annex four partially-occupied regions of Ukraine. Kalin said the halt in talks was to be expected, adding he had recently discussed the issue with US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan. The Turkish official said there was also a larger point at play when it comes to Russian involvement in negotiations. "Our understanding is that Mr. Putin wants to have a new grand bargain, a new deal with the West. It's partly about Ukraine, no doubt. But the larger issue is really a new deal between Russia and the Western world,” Kalin said. Moscow feels that the agreements made at the end of the Cold War, under Presidents Mikhail Gorbachev and Boris Yeltsin, no longer reflect the Russia of today, he said. "There is a new Russia, there is a new world, there is a new reality, and they want to have a new bargain,” Kalin said. As a result, the entire global liberal order is facing a big test, he said. 5:30 p.m. ET, October 7, 2022 Russia designates anti-war rapper, a writer and a women's rights activist as foreign agents From CNN's Uliana Pavlova Rapper Oxxxymiron performs at a Moscow club on November 26, 2018. (Maxim Zmeyev/AFP/Getty Images) The Russian Ministry of Justice on Friday added anti-war rapper Oxxxymiron, anti-war writer and journalist Dmitry Glukhovsky and women’s rights activist Alena Popova to its registry of "foreign agents." The ministry alleged Oxxxymiron had received funding from Ukraine. Oxxxymiron — whose real name is Miron Fyodorov — has been the country’s most popular rapper for over a decade, with songs that are often political. Since the beginning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, he has held a series of “Russians against war” concerts in Istanbul, Berlin and London. All the proceeds were directed to Polish organizations that help Ukrainian refugees. Russia’s Investigative Committee is examining Oxxxymiron’s songs under the country’s anti-extremism laws. Glukhovsky, who is most famous for his books “Metro 2033” and “Post,” is also facing criminal charges under the law for spreading fake information about the armed forces. Glukhovsky has been put on the country's wanted list. He is not currently in Russia. In July, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed a law "on control over the activities of persons under foreign influence." 4:46 p.m. ET, October 7, 2022 More than 20 "torture chambers" found after recent Ukrainian offensive, top police official says From CNN's Jo Shelley, Olga Voitovych and Tim Lister A destroyed Russian command center is seen on September 29, in Izium, Ukraine. On September 9th, Ukranian armed forces hit the center that was known as a jail and torture chamber. (Paula Bronstein/Getty Images) More than 20 suspected Russian “torture chambers” have been found in the northeast territory recently retaken from Russian forces, a top police official said. “In almost all large cities and towns, where military units of the Russian army were based, they set up such places of detention of civilians and prisoners of war and tortured them,” said Serhii Bolvinov, head of the investigative department of the regional police, adding that one was in the town of Pisky-Radkivski. The most common torture techniques were electric shocks and severe beatings with sticks and other objects, he said, adding that there were also cases of nails being pulled out and the use of gas masks to restrict breathing. Bolvinov cited testimony from a 67-year-old man in Izium, who the Russians accused of assisting Ukrainian targeting. According to Bolvinov: This man was taken to the local police department and later had a black hood put over his head. One of his interrogators had put a gun to his head and demanded to know to whom he had given the coordinates of targets. When he denied doing so, they used a pipe or bat on his hands and broke his arm. The man had testified that later his captors had pushed metal spokes from a bicycle wheel under his skin, and beat him. His injuries included internal bleeding and he was now in a Kharkiv hospital, according to Bolvinov. CNN has not been able to verify the regional police chief's account. Bolvinov also said there were also criminal proceedings underway regarding allegations of rape. "We understand that it is very difficult for victims to testify about such facts. However, there are proceedings that we have registered, there are appeals from women who were raped. We have information about the alleged facts of rapes in torture chambers," Bolvinov added. 3:52 p.m. ET, October 7, 2022 534 civilian bodies have been found in territory recaptured by Ukraine, Kharkiv police say From Jo Shelley, Olga Voitovych and Tim Lister A mass burial site after exhumation in Izum, Ukraine, on September 30. (Maxym Marusenko/NurPhoto/AP) The bodies of more than 500 civilians have been discovered in the territory in northeast Ukraine that has recently been retaken from Russian forces, according to Ukrainian police. Most of the remains — 447, according to Ukrainian forces — were found at what was described as a mass burial site in the town of Izium , which Ukrainian forces liberated from Russian occupation in early September. Russian troops had been using Izium as a launchpad for attacks southward into the Donetsk region. As Ukrainian forces liberated more land in the northeast, new burial sites are being discovered. “We found the bodies of 534 civilians from the de-occupied territories," said Serhii Bolvinov, the head of the investigative department of the regional police, They included 226 women and 19 children, Bolvinov added. 2:50 p.m. ET, October 7, 2022 Pentagon says Putin has not made a decision to use nuclear weapons From CNN's Ellie Kaufman The day after US President Joe Biden warned of a potential of a nuclear "Armageddon,” the Pentagon said “we don't assess that President Putin has made a decision to use nuclear weapons at this time,” press secretary Brig. Gen. Pat Ryder said during a briefing Thursday. “Many people in our government and in the international community, to include [Defense Sec. Lloyd] Austin, have highlighted the fact that this nuclear saber-rattling is reckless and irresponsible,” Ryder said. Right now, the US does not have any information to cause a change in “strategic deterrence posture,” Ryder added. The US continues to take the threats “very seriously,” and will continue to monitor the situation, he added. 2:48 p.m. ET, October 7, 2022 European Council chief says there is growing support among member states for joint energy purchases From CNN's Niamh Kennedy and Allegra Goodwin in London European Council President Charles Michel, center, speaks during a media conference at the European Union leaders' summit in Prague, Czech Republic, on Friday. (Darko Bandic/AP) There is growing support among European Union member states for joint energy purchases, according to European Council President Charles Michel. Speaking during a news conference following an informal EU leaders' summit in Prague on Friday, Michel said Russia has "fired an energetic missile at the European continent and the world," highlighting the severity of the energy crisis Europe is facing. "Before the summer, we said that we needed to organize the procurement of energy supplies. We came back to the topic today and there is increasing support to progress this," Michel told journalists. Under this model, energy stocks would be refilled as soon as it becomes necessary, Michel added. He was supported by his colleague, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, who called it of "paramount importance" that the EU has joint procurement of gas. A joint scheme would eradicate the need for member states to "outbid each other" for supplies while allowing the bloc to wield a "collective bargaining power," according to von der Leyen. “We have to keep our single market together and we have to avoid fragmentation,” she added. 1:30 p.m. ET, October 7, 2022 Death toll after Russian missile strikes in Zaporizhzhia rises to 14, authorities say From CNN's Julia Kesaieva The death toll after Russian missile strikes hit a city apartment building has risen to 14, according to Anatolii Kurtiev, secretary of the Zaporizhzhia city council. "We continue to receive disheartening news from the dismantling of the rubble on the buildings damaged by yesterday's attack. The death toll has now risen to fourteen," Kurtiev said on Telegram. Some background: Moscow launched a series of fatal missile attacks on the city of Zaporizhzhia early Thursday, just hours after the Kremlin signed a decree to formally seize a massive nuclear power plant nearby. The city of Zaporizhzhia is not far from the front lines of the conflict. Though the city is under Ukrainian control, about 75% of the greater Zaporizhzhia region is occupied by Russian forces. That region is one of four Ukrainian territories Russia is claiming to annex in violation of international law. Search Audio US Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food and Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Audio CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Coupons Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN World Audio Follow CNN Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility & CC Ad Choices About Us CNN Store Newsletters Transcripts License Footage CNN Newsource Sitemap © 2022 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Please enable JavaScript for a better experience.