 CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. Close Ad Feedback World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom More Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Audio Live TV Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Follow CNN World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Olympics US Sports Climbing Motorsport Formula E Esports Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa 2 Degrees CNN Heroes All Features Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Russian officials criticize retreat from key Donetsk city after Putin annexed region By Katharina Krebs and Kara Fox , CNN Published 11:40 AM EDT, Sun October 2, 2022 Link Copied! Ad Feedback Video Ad Feedback Russia-Ukraine conflict Surveillance footage from fixed cameras on the Kerch bridge shows the moment of a large explosion on the roadway, with some vehicles apparently caught in the blast. (Telegram) Telegram Now playing 03:23 Surveillance footage captures large explosion on key bridge to Russian-annexed Crimea Now playing 03:36 See Russians lining up to leave their homeland in defiance of Putin Former Russian mercenary of the Wagner group Marat Gabidullin poses during a photo session on May 11, 2022 in Paris. (Photo by STEPHANE DE SAKUTIN / AFP) (Photo by STEPHANE DE SAKUTIN/AFP via Getty Images) Stephane De Sakutin/AFP/Getty Images Now playing 04:01 Morale is plummeting in Putin's private army as Russia's war in Ukraine falters Now playing 02:38 Russian troops are releasing video on social media that reveals what's really going on behind the lines Now playing 02:41 Video shows Ukraine's counter-offensive against Russian army CNN Now playing 05:28 Former CIA chief doesn't think Putin is planning a nuclear strike. Here's why Now playing 03:42 Reporter: Fear of the Kremlin's army is broken here Now playing 02:08 CNN team meets relieved Ukrainians in newly liberated town Now playing 01:59 Ex-US defense secretary says if Putin resorts to nukes, he's likely to use this weapon CNN Now playing 01:27 Retired colonel explains what Russia's military strategy is now From Twitter Now playing 02:58 Social media video shows Russian army in disarray CNN Now playing 02:15 Social media video of Russian recruits reveals reality on the frontlines Reuters Now playing 01:34 How Ukraine's recapture of key town advances their position Now playing 04:19 CNN among the first inside the city of Lyman as Russian forces retreat CNN Now playing 03:19 'Utter ferocity': See the devastating scene in a newly-liberated Ukrainian town See More Videos CNN — Russian officials have criticized their military leadership following the retreat of Russian forces from the strategic eastern city of Lyman, in the Donetsk region, underlining concerns that Moscow could be eyeing nuclear weapons on the battlefield . A Russian lawmaker and former army commander told Soloviev Live, a digital pro-Kremlin channel on Saturday that he could not explain this “surrender” from a military point of view. “It is not clear to me why they didn’t correctly assess the situation at that time, didn’t strengthen the group of troops,” Russian State Duma deputy and former commander of the 58th Army, Lieutenant General Andrei Gurulev said. “This is probably a significant milestone not only military, but also political, especially now,” he also said, adding that “the problem is the general lies, the report of a good situation. This system goes from top to bottom.” Using the Russian name for the town of Lyman, the Russian defense ministry said Saturday that that “troops were withdrawn from the settlement of Krasny Liman to more advantageous lines.” Russian state media Russia-24 reported that the reason for Russia’s withdrawal was because “the enemy used both Western-made artillery and intelligence from North Atlantic alliance countries.” The retreat marks Ukraine’s most significant gain since its successful counteroffensive in the northeastern Kharkiv region last month. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Sunday that Lyman had been “completely liberated.” NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg told NBC’s “Meet the Press” on Sunday that the liberation shows “Ukrainians are making progress” and are “able to push back the Russian forces.” While it is unusual for pro-Kremlin outlets to carry any criticism of Russian authorities, there has been an increase in on-air criticism from hardliners – who think Moscow should double down its military operation in Ukraine – amid a series of military setbacks. 8287044 30.09.2022 Russian President Vladimir Putin delivers a speech during a ceremony of signing the agreements that will formally reunite Zaporizhzhia and Kherson regions, as well as the Donetsk and Lugansk People's Republics (DPR and LPR) with Russia at the Kremlin, in Moscow, Russia. Grigory Sysoev/Sputnik via AP Putin has his back to the wall with the clock ticking ever louder The leader of Chechnya, Ramzan Kadyrov, also criticized Russia’s withdrawal on Saturday, saying in an angry statement slamming Russian generals in the wake of the withdrawal that the troops “were not provided with the necessary communication, interaction and the supply of ammunition.” Writing on Telegram, Kadyrov blamed the commander of the Central Military District Alexander Lapin, accusing him of moving his headquarters to Starobelsk, “a hundred kilometers away from his subordinates,” and that he “was holed up in Luhansk.” “It’s not a shame that Lapin is mediocre, but the fact that he is covered at the top by the leaders in the General Staff,” he said in a Saturday post, adding that “there is no place for nepotism in the army, especially in difficult times.” He also said that it was time for the Kremlin to make use of every weapon at his disposal, adding to fears that pressure could to be growing on Russian President Vladimir Putin to use nuclear weapons on the battlefield. “In my personal opinion we need to take more drastic measures, including declaring martial law in the border territories and using low-yield nuclear weapons,” Kadyrov said. “There is no need to make every decision with the Western American community in mind.” Earlier this week, former Russian president Dmitry Medvedev, discussed the use of nuclear weapons on his Telegram channel, saying it was permitted if the existence of the Russian state was threatened by an attack even by conventional forces. “If the threat to Russia exceeds our established threat limit, we will have to respond … this is certainly not a bluff,” he wrote. Concerns about the use of nuclear weapons rose sharply after Putin’s proclamation on Friday that Russia would seize nearly a fifth of Ukraine, declaring that the millions of people living there would be Russian citizens “forever.” The announcement was dismissed as illegal by the West, but the fear is the Kremlin might argue that attacks on those territories now constitute attacks on Russia. In his speech in the Kremlin, Putin made only passing reference to nuclear weapons, noting the US was the only country to have used them on the battlefield. “They created a precedent,” he said. Meanwhile, US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin has condemned “nuclear saber-rattling,” telling CNN while he hasn’t seen anything to suggest Putin has decided to use nuclear weapons in the ongoing war on Ukraine, the choice is up to the Russian President. “To be clear, the guy who makes that decision, I mean, it’s one man,” Austin said. “There are no checks on Mr. Putin. Just as he made the irresponsible decision to invade Ukraine, you know, he could make another decision. But I don’t see anything right now that would lead me to believe that he has made such a decision,” Austin added. CNN’s Kostan Nechyporenko, Duarte Mendonca and Allegra Goodwin contributed to this report. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Olympics US Sports Climbing Motorsport Formula E Esports Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa 2 Degrees CNN Heroes All Features Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN World Audio Live TV Follow CNN Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2022 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. 