 CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. Close Ad Feedback World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom More Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Audio Live TV Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Follow CNN World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Olympics US Sports Climbing Motorsport Formula E Esports Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa 2 Degrees CNN Heroes All Features Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Putin vs. Obama: Facing off over facts in Ukraine Catherine E. Shoichet , CNN Updated 7:32 AM EST, Wed March 5, 2014 Link Copied! Ad Feedback Video Ad Feedback 02:24 - Source: CNN Ukraine standoff brings war of words Story highlights From afar, Obama and Putin exchange sharp words over Ukraine American and Russian leaders paint starkly different pictures of the situation Putin says his country has a right to use military force and claims there was a coup Kerry argues that Russia is telling falsehoods as it makes a case for invasion CNN — Here are some of the questions at play, with a look at how key players are weighing in: A defiant Russian President Vladimir Putin said Tuesday that masked gunmen are fueling anarchy in Ukraine. He decried what he called an illegitimate government that illegally seized power in a coup with U.S. backing, arguing that his country has a right to use military force. U.S. President Barack Obama and his country’s top diplomat said Ukraine’s new government is democratically responding to the people’s will. They warned of invading forces and a desperate Russia breaking international law. “President Putin seems to have a different set of lawyers making a different set of interpretations,” Obama said, “but I don’t think that’s fooling anybody.” Putin blamed Western powers, particularly the United States, for causing what he called “anarchy and armed coup” in Ukraine. exp Erin Saakashvili plan_00000029.jpg video How far will Putin go in Ukraine? Ukrainian soldier stands behind a fence while unidentified armed men block the headquarters of the Ukrainian Navy in Sevastopol on March 3, 2014. The Russian Black Sea Fleet commander Aleksandr Vitko has issued an ultimatum to the Ukrainian military personnel in Crimea, the Interfax-Ukraine news agency reported. Ukraine accused Russia on Monday of pouring more troops into Crimea as world leaders grappled with Europe's worst standoff since the Cold War and the Moscow market plunged on fears of an all-out conflict. AFP PHOTO/ VIKTOR DRACHEV (Photo credit should read VIKTOR DRACHEV/AFP/Getty Images) VIKTOR DRACHEV/AFP/Getty Images video Can bloodshed be prevented in Crimea? PEREVALNE, UKRAINE - MARCH 03: Ukrainian soldiers stand inside the gate of a Ukrainian military base as unidentified heavily-armed soldiers stand outside in Crimea on March 3, 2014 in Perevalne, Ukraine. Scores of heavily-armed soldiers not displaying any idenifying insignia have taken up positions outside the base and parked several dozen vehicles, mostly trucks and patrol cars, nearby. Their commander has reportedly told the Ukrainian unit to hand over the base and come out without any weapons, though the Ukrainians have thus far refused. Soldiers have surrounded several Ukrainian military bases across Crimea in recent days as pro-Russian forces are cementing their seizure of authority in the peninsula. (Photo by Sean Gallup/Getty Images) Sean Gallup/Getty Images video Crimea downplays Russian ultimatum “I have a feeling people in America sit in some lab doing experiments, like on rats,” he said, “without knowing consequences.” The conflicting descriptions are enough to give you whiplash. Ukraine’s shaky new government is caught in the middle , and it’s clear that world powers don’t see eye to eye over basic facts about what’s happening. READ: In phone call, Obama and Putin argued the facts Here are some of the questions at play, with a look at how key players are weighing in: What’s happening in Kiev and Crime a ? Russia’s take: Putin described a country in chaos. “Military men are walking around Kiev in masks still now. They wanted to humiliate someone or show their force,” he said. “I think this is very stupid.” United States’ take: The streets in Kiev are “calm and friendly,” U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said, and Ukrainian soldiers in Crimea have “stood their ground but never fired a shot, never issued one provocation, have been surrounded by an invading group of troops.” What we’ve seen: In Crimea, the situation is calm but tense, CNN’s Ben Wedeman and Clare Sebastian report . Russian forces have surrounded 10 Ukrainian military bases. There’s been no fighting – or loss of life – but there are ample signs of preparation. There’s a “war of information” in the region “between those who watch Russian state TV and those who are getting their news from the West, none of them listening to the calls from Kiev for unity in this country,” CNN’s Diana Magnay reported. In Kiev, there are still barricades and battle scars from recent fighting before Viktor Yanukovych’s ouster, CNN’s Anderson Cooper and Elise Labott reported. Protesters there are waving posters depicting caricatures of Putin and declaring their willingness to fight against Russian forces, if necessary. In Crimea: ‘I feel unsure about what will be tomorrow’ Who’s in charge of Ukraine? Russia’s take: Viktor Yanukovych remains Ukraine’s elected leader, and Ukraine’s new government is illegitimate. Russian United Nations envoy Vitaly Churkin called it an “armed takeover by radical extremists.” Viktor Yanukovych remains Ukraine’s elected leader, and Ukraine’s new government is illegitimate. “The legitimate president is only Yanukovych,” Putin said. “There are just three ways to dismiss the president from power: death, his personal request and the third one, impeachment. … This procedure was not followed.” United States’ take: Yanukovych abandoned his post last month, fled the country and was then voted out of office by Ukraine’s democratically elected parliament. Yanukovych abandoned his post last month, refused to sign a transition deal, fled the country and was then voted out of office by Ukraine’s democratically elected parliament. “He broke his obligation to sign that agreement and he fled into the night with his possessions, destroying papers behind him,” Kerry said in Kiev on Tuesday. “He abandoned his people and eventually his country.” If I take the decision to use military force, it will be completely legitimate. Russian President Vladimir Putin Ukraine’s take: Ukraine has a legitimate government and is set to have new presidential elections on May 25. “Let’s give an opportunity for that to work,” Ukrainian Ambassador to the U.N. Yuriy Sergeyev said. But not everyone in the country agrees. Some support having closer ties with Russia . Yanukovych, for his part, said in a news conference from Russia last week that the planned May 25 elections would be illegal, insisting that he was still in charge and wanted to lead his country to peace, harmony and prosperity. U.S. strategy for Ukraine crisis: Money talks How many Russian troops are inside Ukraine? Russia’s take: Russia hasn’t said how many troops it’s sent into Ukraine. Part of the Russian Navy is based in Crimea, but Putin hasn’t acknowledged sending any additional troops to Ukraine. He told reporters Tuesday that the surge in forces in Crimea were local self-defense groups pushing for the will of the people to be respected. Asked whether they were Russian, he said the uniforms the troops are wearing could be purchased at a store. United States’ take: Kerry sounded shocked by Putin’s explanation Tuesday. Putin, he said, “is insisting against all evidence everywhere in the world about troops being in Crimea that they’re not there.” Russian forces “have complete operational control of the Crimean peninsula,” a senior U.S. administration official told CNN on Sunday, with estimates of 6,000 Russian ground and naval forces in the region Ukraine’s take: Russia has sent military ships, helicopters and cargo planes to deploy 16,000 troops into Crimea since February 24, Sergeyev told the United Nations on Monday. Russia has sent military ships, helicopters and cargo planes to deploy 16,000 troops into Crimea since February 24, Sergeyev told the United Nations on Monday. Do Russian troops have a right to be in Crimea? Russia’s take: Yes. A treaty between the neighboring nations allows Russia to have up to 25,000 troops in Crimea, Russia’s U.N. envoy said Monday, adding that Yanukovych requested that Russia send military forces. Yes. A treaty between the neighboring nations allows Russia to have up to 25,000 troops in Crimea, Russia’s U.N. envoy said Monday, adding that Yanukovych asked Russia to send military forces. Putin said Russia has no plans to take over Crimea. “If I take the decision to use military force, it will be completely legitimate and correspond to the international law,” Putin said, “because we have the request of the legitimate president and also (it) corresponds to our duties and corresponds to our interest in protecting the people who are close to us historically and have connected culturally.” United States’ take: No, and Russian President Vladimir Putin is playing a dangerous game. The consequences of military action “could be devastating,” U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Samantha Power said Monday. Russia “has chosen aggression and intimidation as a first resort,” Kerry said Tuesday, accusing the country’s government of “hiding its hand behind falsehoods, intimidation and provocations.” Ukraine’s take: No. Russian troops amassing in Crimea and near the border with Ukraine are an “act of aggression.” If judged by the numbers, Ukraine’s military loses war with Russia Why is the tense standoff unfolding now? They are externally taking over and trying to annex Crimea. U.S. Secretary of State John kerry Russia’s take: Russia has said its parliament approved Putin’s use of military force to protect Russian citizens in the Crimean peninsula. Parliament approved Putin’s use of military force to protect Russian citizens inside Ukraine. “This corresponds to our national interest to protect these people, and this is a humanitarian mission. We are not trying to enslave people, or dictate anything to anyone,” Putin said. “Of course, we can’t stay aside if we see the people persecuted, bullied or killed. We very much hope it will not come to this.” United States’ take: Russia is responding to its own historic sensitivities about Ukraine, Crimea and their place in Moscow’s sphere of influence, a senior White House official told CNN Monday. Russia fears that Ukraine is falling under European or Western influence, the official said. Putin, the administration believes, is threatened by challenges to his influence, especially popular uprisings against governments that are supportive of the Russian leader, a senior Obama administration official said Tuesday. “They are externally taking over and trying to annex Crimea,” Kerry said. Ukraine’s take: There’s no evidence of any threat to Russians inside Ukraine. Russia wants to annex Crimea. CNN’s Jim Acosta and Dana Ford contributed to this report. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Olympics US Sports Climbing Motorsport Formula E Esports Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa 2 Degrees CNN Heroes All Features Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN World Audio Live TV Follow CNN Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2022 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. 