 CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary More Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Audio Live TV Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Follow CNN US Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2020 Election Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Video Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Coupons More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Putin won’t stop at Crimea Alexander J. Motyl Updated 4:31 PM EDT, Mon March 17, 2014 Link Copied! Ad Feedback Crisis in Ukraine — Ukrainian tanks are transported from their base in Perevalne, Crimea, on Wednesday, March 26. After Russian troops seized most of Ukraine's bases in Crimea, interim Ukrainian President Oleksandr Turchynov ordered the withdrawal of armed forces from the peninsula, citing Russian threats to the lives of military staff and their families. Pavel Golovkin/aP Crisis in Ukraine — Ukrainian marines wave as they leave a base in Feodosia, Crimea, on Tuesday, March 25. Valeriy Kulyk/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Russian sailors stand on the deck of the corvette ship Suzdalets in the bay of Sevastopol, Crimea, on March 25. VIKTOR DRACHEV/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Pro-Russian militia members remove a local resident as Russian troops assault the Belbek air base, outside Sevastopol, on Saturday, March 22. Following its annexation of Crimea, Russian forces have consolidated their control of the region. Ivan Sekretarev/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Soldiers in unmarked uniforms sit atop an armored personnel carrier at the gate of the Belbek air base on March 22. Ivan Sekretarev/AP Crisis in Ukraine — A Russian sailor holds the Russian Navy's St. Andrew's flag while standing on the bow of the surrendered Ukrainian submarine Zaporozhye on March 22 in Sevastopol. SERGEI ILNITSKY/EPA /LANDOV Crisis in Ukraine — Russian President Vladimir Putin signs the final decree completing the annexation of Crimea on Friday, March 21, as Upper House Speaker Valentina Matviyenko, left, and State Duma Speaker Sergei Naryshkin watch. Sasha Mordovets/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — A Ukrainian serviceman leaves a Ukrainian military unit that Russian soldiers took control of in Perevalne on March 21. YURI KOCHETKOV/EPA/LANDOV Crisis in Ukraine — Ukrainian border guards run during training at a military camp in Alekseyevka, Ukraine, on March 21. Sergei Grits/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Russian soldiers patrol the area surrounding a Ukrainian military unit in Perevalne on Thursday, March 20. FILIPPO MONTEFORTE/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Pro-Russian protesters remove the gate to the Ukrainian navy headquarters as Russian troops stand guard in Sevastopol on Wednesday, March 19. Vasiliy BATANOV/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Pro-Russian forces walk inside the Ukrainian navy headquarters in Sevastopol on March 19. Andrew Lubimov/AP Crisis in Ukraine — A member of pro-Russian forces takes down a Ukrainian flag at the Ukrainian navy headquarters in Sevastopol on March 19. Andrew Lubimov/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Alexander Vitko, chief of the Russian Black Sea Fleet, leaves the Ukrainian navy headquarters in Sevastopol after pro-Russian forces took it over on March 19. Andrew Lubimov/AP Crisis in Ukraine — A Russian flag waves as workers install a new sign on a parliament building in Simferopol, Crimea's capital, on March 19. Vadim Ghidra/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Russian military personnel surround a Ukrainian military base in Perevalne on March 19. Dan Kitwood/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Nameplates on the front of the Crimean parliament building get removed Tuesday, March 18, in Simferopol. Bulent Doruk/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — From left, Crimean Prime Minister Sergey Aksyonov; Vladimir Konstantinov, speaker of the Crimean parliament; Russian President Vladimir Putin; and Alexei Chaly, the new de facto mayor of Sevastopol, join hands in Moscow on March 18 after signing a treaty to make Crimea part of Russia. YEKATERINA SHTUKINA/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Demonstrators hold a Crimean flag at Lenin Square in Simferopol on March 18. FILIPPO MONTEFORTE/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Ukrainian soldiers stand guard at a checkpoint near Strilkove, Ukraine, close to Crimea on Monday, March 17. IVAN BOBERSKYY/EPA/LANDOV Crisis in Ukraine — Former boxer and Ukrainian politician Vitali Klitschko addresses reporters in Kiev, Ukraine, on March 17. Artyom Geodakyan/ITAR-TASS/Landov Crisis in Ukraine — Ukrainian troops stand guard in front of the Ukrainian Parliament building in Kiev on March 17. SERGEI SUPINSKY/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — A Ukrainian man applies for the National Guard at a mobile recruitment center in Kiev on March 17. ROBERT GHEMENT/EPA/LANDOV Crisis in Ukraine — Civilians walk past riot police in Simferopol on March 17. Dan Kitwood/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — A Ukrainian soldier stands on top of an armored vehicle at a military camp near the village of Michurino, Ukraine, on March 17. Sergei Grits/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Policemen stand guard outside the regional state administration building in Donetsk, Ukraine, during a rally by pro-Russia activists March 17. KHUDOTEPLY/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Armed soldiers stand guard outside a Ukrainian military base in Perevalne on March 17. Spencer Platt/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — A man holds a Crimean flag as he stands in front of the Crimean parliament building in Simferopol on March 17. DIMITAR DILKOFF/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Crimeans holding Russian flags celebrate in front of the parliament building in Simferopol on Sunday, March 16. XINHUA /LANDOV Crisis in Ukraine — A Ukrainian police officer tries to shield himself from a road block thrown by pro-Russia supporters in Kharkiv, Ukraine, on March 16. Sergei Chuzavkov/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Pro-Russia demonstrators storm the prosecutor general's office during a rally in Donetsk on March 16. Andrey Basevich/AP Crisis in Ukraine — A child casts her mother's ballot March 16 while holding a Russian flag at a polling station in Simferopol. VIKTOR DRACHEV/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — A pro-Russian soldier, with the Russian flag behind him, mans a machine gun outside an Ukrainian military base in Perevalne on Saturday, March 15. Vadim Ghirda/AP Crisis in Ukraine — A pro-Russian soldier guards the perimeter outside an Ukrainian military base in Perevalne on March 15. Vadim Ghirda/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Russian flags wave in front of a monument dedicated to Soviet Union founder Vladimir Lenin during a pro-Russia rally in Simferopol's Lenin Square on March 15. Dan Kitwood/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Evgenyi Batyukhov cries March 14 at the site where pro-Russian and pro-Ukrainian activists clashed the night before in Donetsk, Ukraine. Sergei Grits/AP Crisis in Ukraine — A line of policemen stand in front of a bus of pro-Ukrainian activists as pro-Russian supporters confront them during a rally in Donetsk on Thursday, March 13. Alexander KHUDOTEPLY/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Pro-Russian supporters clash with pro-Ukrainian activists in Donetsk on March 13. Alexander KHUDOTEPLY/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Recent Academy Award winner Jared Leto walks through Independence Square in Kiev on March 13. During his Oscars acceptance speech in early March, the actor spoke to protesters in Ukraine and Venezuela saying, "We're thinking of you tonight." Sergey Starostenko/Kommersant Photo via Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — A member of a pro-Russian self-defense unit checks a polling station near Simferopol on March 13. Manu Brabo/AP Crisis in Ukraine — A Ukrainian soldier looks out of the window of a regional military building with a poster reading "Ukraine's armed forces wait for you!" in Donetsk on March 13. Sergei Grits/AP Crisis in Ukraine — An armed Cossack stands guard at a checkpoint on the road from Simferopol to Sevastopol on March 13. FILIPPO MONTEFORTE/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — A pro-Russian soldier speaks to a truck driver outside the Ukrainian infantry base in Perevalne on Wednesday, March 12. Vadim Ghirda/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Cossacks stand guard at Crimea's regional parliament building in Simferopol on March 12. FILIPPO MONTEFORTE/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Soldiers are seen aboard the Ukrainian ship Slavutych in the harbor of Sevastopol on Tuesday, March 11. FILIPPO MONTEFORTE/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Ukrainian naval officers board a boat in front of the Russian minesweeper Turbinist in Sevastopol's harbor on March 11. FILIPPO MONTEFORTE/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — People shout slogans during a pro-Russia rally in Donetsk on Sunday, March 9. Sergei Grits/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Ukrainian police detain a demonstrator during a pro-Russian rally in Donetsk on March 9. Sergei Grits/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Pro-Russia protesters remove a Ukrainian flag from a flagpole taken from a government building in Donetsk on March 9. Sergei Grits/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Cossacks and other pro-Russian forces stand guard outside a government building in Simferopol on Saturday, March 8. Manu Brabo/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Ukrainian soldiers load armored personnel carriers into boxcars in the western Ukrainian city of Lviv on March 8. YURIY DYACHYSHYN/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Armed men believed to be Russian military march in a village outside Simferopol on Friday, March 7. MAXIM SHIPENKOV/EPA/LANDOV Crisis in Ukraine — Pro-Russia protesters demonstrate outside the Belbek air base, near Sevastopol, on Thursday, March 6. FILIPPO MONTEFORTE/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — A Ukrainian navy officer looks at the scuttled, decommissioned Russian vessel Ochakov from the Black Sea shore outside the town of Myrnyi, Ukraine, on March 6. Russian naval personnel scuttled the ship, blockading access for five Ukrainian naval vessels. Darko Vojinovic/AP Crisis in Ukraine — A member of the Russian military patrols around Perevalne on March 6. Maxppp/Landov Crisis in Ukraine — Servicemen guard a checkpoint at a Ukrainian navy base in Perevalne on March 6. Stanislav Krasilnikov/ITAR-TASS/Landov Crisis in Ukraine — Ukrainian troops guard the Belbek air base on March 6. ZURAB KURTSIKIDZE/EPA/LANDOV Crisis in Ukraine — A woman walks past barricades March 6 that were set up by anti-government protesters in Kiev's Independence Square. Emilio Morenatti/AP Crisis in Ukraine — A sailor guards the Ukrainian Navy ship Slavutych in the Bay of Sevastopol on Wednesday, March 5. VIKTOR DRACHEV/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — People wait in line for food distribution in Independence Square on March 5. DIMITAR DILKOFF/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Ukrainian sailors carry meat to their vessel in the Sevastopol harbor on March 5. courtesy Denis Sinyakov Crisis in Ukraine — Riot police stand at the entrance of a regional administrative building during a rally in Donetsk on March 5. Sergei Chuzavkov/AP Crisis in Ukraine — A Ukrainian police officer gives instructions to members of the media in front of the business class lounge of the Simferopol airport on March 5. Darko Vojinovic/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Pro-Russia demonstrators wave a Russian flag after storming a regional administrative building in Donetsk on March 5. Sergei Chuzavkov/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Demonstrators break a police barrier as they storm a regional administrative building in Donetsk on March 5. Sergei Chuzavkov/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Ukrainian military recruits line up to receive instructions in Kiev's Independence Square on Tuesday, March 4. Emilio Morenatti/AP Crisis in Ukraine — People stand on the Ukrainian Navy ship Slavutych while it's at harbor in Sevastopol on March 4. Mattresses were placed over the side of the ship to hinder any attempted assault. Courtesy Andrew Lubimov Crisis in Ukraine — Ukrainian troops watch as a Russian navy ship blocks the entrance of the Ukrainian navy base in Sevastopol on March 4. ZURAB KURTSIKIDZE/EPA/LANDOV Crisis in Ukraine — A woman photographs pro-Russian soldiers guarding Ukraine's infantry base in Perevalne on March 4. Sergei Grits/AP Crisis in Ukraine — U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, wearing a blue scarf, visits a shrine March 4 for the people who were killed in February during anti-government protests in Kiev. Kevin Lamarque/Pool/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Yuli Mamchun, the commander of the Ukrainian military garrison at the Belbek air base near Sevastopol, salutes on March 4. Sean Gallup/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Russian soldiers stand guard at the Belbek air base on March 4. courtesy Denis Sinyakov Crisis in Ukraine — Ukrainian military members march at the Belbek air base on March 4. Ivan Sekretarev/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Russian soldiers fire warning shots to keep back Ukrainian military members at the Belbek air base on March 4. Ivan Sekretarev/AP Crisis in Ukraine — A Ukrainian airman puts the Ukrainian national flag over the gate of the Belbek air base as they guard what's left under their control on March 4. Ivan Sekretarev/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Russian soldiers aim a grenade launcher and machine gun as they guard positions at the Belbek air base on March 4. Ivan Sekretarev/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Ukrainian seamen stand guard on the Ukrainian navy ship Slavutych in the Sevastopol harbor on Monday, March 3. Andrew Lubimov/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Oleg, a Ukrainian soldier, kisses his girlfriend, Svetlana, through the gates of the Belbek base entrance on March 3. Tensions are high at the base, where Ukrainian soldiers were standing guard inside the building while alleged Russian gunmen were standing guard outside the gates. Sean Gallup/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Wives of Ukrainian soldiers walk past Russian soldiers to visit their husbands guarding a military base in Perevalne on March 3. courtesy Denis Sinyakov Crisis in Ukraine — A Russian soldier guards an area outside Ukraine's military base in the village of Perevalne on March 3. courtesy Denis Sinyakov Crisis in Ukraine — A sailor looks out a window near the entrance to the Ukrainian navy headquarters in Sevastopol on March 3. Andrew Lubimov/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Armed men in military uniform walk outside a Ukrainian military unit near Simferopol on Sunday, March 2. Hundreds of armed men in trucks and armored vehicles surrounded the Ukrainian base Sunday in Crimea, blocking its soldiers from leaving. ALEXEY FURMAN/EPA/LANDOV Crisis in Ukraine — Soldiers walk outside a Ukrainian military base in Perevalne as a local resident waves a Russian flag March 2. Ivan Sekretarev/ap Crisis in Ukraine — Demonstrators shout during a rally in Kiev's Independence Square on March 2. Emilio Morenatti/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Ukrainian soldiers, left, and unidentified gunmen, right, stand at the gate of an infantry base in Perevalne on March 2. Darko Vojinovic/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Ukrainian soldiers guard a gate of an infantry base in Perevalne on March 2. Darko Vojinovic/AP Crisis in Ukraine — A woman cries during a rally in Independence Square on March 2. Sergei Chuzavkov/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Protesters hold flags of the United States, Germany and Italy during a rally in Independence Square on March 2. Emilio Morenatti/AP Crisis in Ukraine — People attend a morning prayer service at Independence Square on March 2. LOUISA GOULIAMAKI/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — A soldier and a truck driver unload bread outside the Ukranian navy headquarters in Sevastopol on March 2. Andrew Lubimov/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Heavily armed troops, displaying no identifying insignia and who were mingling with local pro-Russian militants, stand guard outside a local government building in Simferopol on March 2. Sean Gallup/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — A woman waits in front of unidentified men in military fatigues who were blocking a base of the Ukrainian frontier guard unit in Balaklava, Ukraine, on Saturday, March 1. VIKTOR DRACHEV/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — U.S. President Barack Obama, in the Oval Office of the White House, talks on the phone March 1 with Russian President Vladimir Putin. Pete Souza/White House Photo Crisis in Ukraine — Troops stand guard in Balaklava on March 1. Andrew Lubimov/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Heavily armed soldiers displaying no identifying insignia maintain watch in Simferopol on March 1. Sean Gallup/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — People gather around the coffin of a man who was killed during clashes with riot police in Independence Square. BULENT KILIC/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Pro-Russian activists hold Russian flags during a rally in the center of Donetsk on March 1. Sergey Vaganov/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Pro-Russian activists clash with Maidan supporters as they storm the regional government building in Kharkiv, Ukraine, on March 1. SERGEY BOBOK/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — A protester stands at a memorial March 1 for the people killed in clashes at Independence Square. Emilio Morenatti/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Armed men patrol outside the Simferopol International Airport on Friday, February 28. Sean Gallup/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — An image provided to CNN by a local resident shows Russian tanks on the move in Sevastopol. provided to cnn Crisis in Ukraine — Russian troops block a road February 28 toward the military airport in Sevastopol. The Russian Black Sea Fleet is based at the port city. Andrew Lubimov/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Armed men stand guard in front of a building near the Simferopol airport on February 28. Bulent Doruk/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — An armed man wearing no identifying insignia patrols outside Simferopol International Airport on February 28. Sean Gallup/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Police stand guard outside the Crimea regional parliament building Thursday, February 27, in Simferopol. Armed men seized the regional government administration building and parliament in Crimea. Sean Gallup/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Police intervene as Russian supporters gather in front of the parliament building in Simferopol on February 27. Bulent Doruk/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — A man adds fuel to a fire at a barricade in Independence Square on February 27. Dozens of people were killed during clashes between security forces and protesters. LOUISA GOULIAMAKI/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Pro-Russia demonstrators wave Russian and Crimean flags in front of a local government building in Simferopol on February 27. Darko Vojinovic/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Barricades in front of a government building in Simferopol on February 27 hold a banner that reads: "Crimea Russia." There's a broad divide between those who support the pro-Western developments in Kiev and those who back Russia's continued influence in Crimea and across Ukraine. Darko Vojinovic/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Protesters stand in front of a government building in Simferopol on February 27. Tensions have simmered in the Crimea region since the ouster of Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych. Darko Vojinovic/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Protesters in support of the president's ouster rally in Independence Square, which has been the center of opposition, on Wednesday, February 26. Marko Drobnjakovic/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Security forces stand guard during clashes between opposing sides in front of Crimea's parliament building in Simferopol on February 26. Bulent Doruk/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Pro-Russian demonstrators, right, clash with anti-Russian protesters in front of a government building in Simferopol on February 26. Darko Vojinovic/Ap Crisis in Ukraine — A police officer gets pulled into a crowd of Crimean Tatars in Simferopol on February 26. The Tatars, an ethnic minority group deported during the Stalin era, rallied in support of Ukraine's interim government. Andrew Lubimov/AP Crisis in Ukraine — A man places flowers at a barricade near Independence Square on February 26. Efrem Lukatsky/AP Crisis in Ukraine — On February 26 in Kiev, a woman holds a photograph of a protester killed during the height of tensions. LOUISA GOULIAMAKI/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Police guard a government building in Donetsk on February 26. Darko Bandic/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Protesters remove a fence that surrounds Ukraine's parliament in Kiev on February 26. Sergei Chuzavkov/AP Crisis in Ukraine — People sing the Ukrainian national anthem at Independence Square on Monday, February 24. Marko Drobnjakovic/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Gas masks used by protesters sit next to a barricade in Independence Square on February 24. Emilio Morenatti/AP Crisis in Ukraine — A woman cries February 24 near a memorial for the people killed in Kiev. Darko Bandic/AP Crisis in Ukraine — People wave a large Ukrainian flag in Independence Square on Sunday, February 23. Brendan Hoffman/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Two pro-government supporters are made to pray February 23 in front of a shrine to dead anti-government protesters. Jeff J Mitchell/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — A man and his daughter lay flowers at a memorial for protesters killed in Independence Square. GENYA SAVILOV/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko speaks at Independence Square on Saturday, February 22, hours after being released from prison. Tymoshenko, considered a hero of a 2004 revolution against Yanukovych, was released after 2½ years behind bars. LOUISA GOULIAMAKI/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Tymoshenko is greeted by supporters shortly after being freed from prison in Kharkiv on February 22. ASSOCIATED PRESS Crisis in Ukraine — A protester guards the entrance to Yanukovych's abandoned residence outside Kiev on February 22. Efrem Lukatsky/AP Crisis in Ukraine — Anti-government protesters guard the streets next to the presidential offices in Kiev on February 22. Jeff J Mitchell/Getty Image Crisis in Ukraine — Anti-government protesters drive a military vehicle in Independence Square on February 22. Many protesters said they wouldn't leave the square until Yanukovych resigned. LOUISA GOULIAMAKI/AFP/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Ukrainian lawmakers argue during a session of Parliament on Friday, February 21. ANDREW KRAVCHENKO /LANDOV Crisis in Ukraine — Men in Kiev carry a casket containing the body of a protester killed in clashes with police. Brendan Hoffman/Getty Images Crisis in Ukraine — Protesters cheer after news of an agreement between the opposing sides in Kiev on February 21. Brendan Hoffman/Getty Images Prev Next Editor’s Note: Alexander J. Motyl is professor of political science at Rutgers University-Newark. He served as associate director of the Harriman Institute at Columbia University from 1992 through 1998. A specialist on Ukraine, Russia and the USSR, he is the author of six academic books and several novels, including “The Jew Who Was Ukrainian,” “My Orchidia,” and “Sweet Snow.” Motyl writes a weekly blog on “ Ukraine’s Orange Blues” for World Affairs Journal. Story highlights Alexander Motyl: Crimea vote a joke: Many believe war with Russia inevitable He says when Yanukovych was overthrown, Ukrainian-Americans were euphoric Motyl: Then Putin made threats; Russia stole Crimea and massed troops at border Motyl: Ukrainian-Americans fear for friends and relatives in Ukraine CNN — As Crimea held a bogus referendum on independence under the watchful eye of Russian occupation force on March 16, I confess that my mind and heart were elsewhere. I have never experienced war or the threat of annihilation. But now, thanks to the Internet, like thousands of other Ukrainian-Americans I am living at the edge of an existential abyss. The violence—the war—that threatens Ukraine does not threaten me. I am in New York and Ukraine is thousands of miles away. But war will threaten my friends, colleagues and family in Ukraine. We Ukrainian-Americans must now live with the very real possibility that their lives could be extinguished if Russian President Vladimir Putin chooses to do so. Indeed, Ukraine could even disappear as a state, if he chooses to make it disappear. The Internet has inserted the reality and possibility of mass death into our lives. We watch events unfold in real time. And we watch these events unfold all day, every day. There is no respite. There is no pause. Alexander Motyl Ukrainians in Ukraine must live with the tangible threat of physical annihilation. We must live with the virtual threat. Their fears are palpable. The consequences for them of war and violence are real: destruction and death. The consequences for us are virtual: We are witnesses to tragedy and mass killings. We watch, our eyes glued to our computer screens, and we imagine the horror. Our empathy is not abstract: Our friends, colleagues and relatives are real people. Neither is our feeling of impotence abstract: It gnaws at our insides and reminds us that we, too, are dying, albeit spiritually. For three months, starting in late November, when the mass pro-democracy demonstrations began in downtown Kiev, and ending on February 21, when Ukraine’s version of Papa Doc Duvalier, Viktor Yanukovych, fled and people power triumphed, we had been witnessing daily regime violence punctuated by a few killings in January and mass killings just before the regime collapsed. ukraine russia ambassador vitaly churkin bts_00001302.jpg video Ambassador: Russia doesn't want war natpkg.ukr.crimea.voices_00003730.jpg video Voices on the Ukraine/Crimea referendum Every morning, turning on my computer, I wondered whether this was the day the criminal Yanukovych regime would crack down, as it continually threatened to do. If all that happened that night was a disappearance or two, a few savage beatings and fire-bombings of cars, we Ukrainian-Americans breathed a sigh of relief. You see, we had actually gotten used to daily terror. We, like the demonstrators in Ukraine, could live with that. After all, they had been living with the violence and predations of the Yanukovych regime since 2010. ukraine train journey chance pkg_00011818.jpg video The long trek from Sevastopol to Donetsk What we feared above all was mass violence. And then it happened. On Tuesday, February 18, about 16 demonstrators and 10 police officers were killed. We were shocked and mourned their deaths, while hoping and expecting the violence to ebb. On Wednesday, February 19, nothing happened and our hopes appeared to be justified. On Thursday, February 20, the regime ordered snipers to shoot randomly at demonstrators. Scores died. And, thanks to the Internet, we saw them being mowed down. The violence had come home. The criminal regime had insinuated itself into our lives. After Yanukovych fled and a democratic government assumed power, we rejoiced. Finally, we thought, Ukraine would be able to become “normal” – free, democratic, liberal and Western. We were euphoric. The death of the country had been averted. Except that, exactly one week later, on Friday, February 28, that euphoria was replaced with the deepest of fears. Vladimir Putin’s Russia invaded and occupied Crimea . That was bad enough. Far worse was yet to come. On Saturday, March 1, Putin claimed to have the right to “defend” “Russian citizens” anywhere in Ukraine , thereby giving himself carte blanche to invade any part of Ukraine he chooses. Which province would be next? On Tuesday, March 4, our existential angst got worse. At a revealing press conference, Putin claimed he had the right to go to war with Ukraine in defense of “Ukrainian citizens.” Putin also said if he made the decision to go to war, “ women and children ” would act as a shield for Russian troops. Many Ukrainians in Ukraine now believe that a Russian invasion of mainland Ukraine is inevitable. If it happens, war will break out and thousands will die. It’s hard to believe that Putin will stop with Crimea. Putin’s former economic adviser Andrei Illarionov, who resigned in protest after a bloody hostage crisis, believes Russian armies will march on Kiev. Putin’s ideological mentor, Aleksandr Dugin , insists that Russia’s goals go beyond Ukraine into Europe – a reunification of the Slavic peoples. Meanwhile, Russian troops and tanks are massing on Ukraine’s borders. Terrified realists that we have become, we suspect the worst: that they will soon be attacking a country that dared say no to Putin. As the clouds of a massive land war appear to approach Ukraine, we watch our screens with horror and hope against hope that Russian bombs will not begin to fall on our friends, colleagues, and family in Ukraine. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Alexander Motyl Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio US Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Audio CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Coupons Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Opinion Audio Live TV Follow CNN Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2022 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. 