 CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. Close Ad Feedback xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"? The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms More The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms Audio Live TV Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms Follow CNN Politics World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Olympics US Sports Climbing Motorsport Formula E Esports Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa 2 Degrees CNN Heroes All Features Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN US believes elements within Ukraine’s government authorized assassination near Moscow, sources say By Natasha Bertrand and Katie Bo Lillis , CNN Updated 2:50 AM EDT, Thu October 6, 2022 Link Copied! Ad Feedback Video Ad Feedback Russia-Ukraine conflict Russian ideologue Alexander Dugin attends the farewell ceremony of his daughter Daria Dugina, who was killed in a car bomb explosion the previous week, at the Ostankino TV centre in Moscow on August 23, 2022. - Daria Dugina followed in her father's footsteps, becoming a well-known media personality who worked for pro-Kremlin television channels including Russia Today and Tsargrad. (Photo by Kirill KUDRYAVTSEV / AFP) (Photo by KIRILL KUDRYAVTSEV/AFP via Getty Images) KIRILL KUDRYAVTSEV/AFP/AFP via Getty Images Now playing 02:55 Hear Dugina's father deliver emotional speech at daughter's funeral Surveillance footage from fixed cameras on the Kerch bridge shows the moment of a large explosion on the roadway, with some vehicles apparently caught in the blast. (Telegram) Telegram Now playing 03:23 Surveillance footage captures large explosion on key bridge to Russian-annexed Crimea Now playing 03:36 See Russians lining up to leave their homeland in defiance of Putin Now playing 04:01 Morale is plummeting in Putin's private army as Russia's war in Ukraine falters Telegram Now playing 02:38 Video shows Ukraine's counter-offensive against Russian army Now playing 02:41 Ukrainian forces retake territory. See what's happening on the ground CNN Now playing 05:28 Former CIA chief doesn't think Putin is planning a nuclear strike. Here's why Now playing 03:42 CNN team meets relieved Ukrainians in newly liberated town Now playing 02:08 Ex-US defense secretary says if Putin resorts to nukes, he's likely to use this weapon Now playing 01:59 Retired colonel calls this move by Ukrainians 'significant' CNN Now playing 01:27 Retired colonel explains what Russia's military strategy is now From Twitter Now playing 02:58 Social media video of Russian recruits reveals reality on the frontlines CNN Now playing 02:15 How Ukraine's recapture of key town advances their position Reuters Now playing 01:34 Putin admits mistakes were made during mobilization Now playing 04:19 CNN among the first inside the city of Lyman as Russian forces retreat CNN Now playing 03:19 'Utter ferocity': See the devastating scene in a newly-liberated Ukrainian town See More Videos Washington CNN — The US intelligence community believes that the car bombing that killed Darya Dugina , the daughter of prominent Russian political figure Alexander Dugin, was authorized by elements within the Ukrainian government, sources briefed on the intelligence told CNN. The US was not aware of the plan beforehand, according to the sources, and it is still unclear who exactly the US believes signed off on the assassination. It is also not clear whether the US intelligence community believes that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky was aware of the plot or authorized it. But the intelligence finding, first reported by the New York Times , would seem to corroborate elements of the Russian authorities’ findings that the car bombing was “pre-planned.” Russia had accused Ukrainian nationals of being responsible for the attack, which Ukraine had strongly denied in the aftermath of the explosion. Asked to comment, a Ukrainian defense intelligence official told CNN Wednesday evening following publication of the latest reports that their agency had no new information on Dugina’s death. Shortly after her death, the same official had told CNN that Ukraine had nothing to do with it. The National Security Council, CIA and State Department declined to comment. US intelligence officials believe that Dugina was driving her father’s car on the night she was killed, and that her father was the actual target of the operation, one of the sources said. Dugin is a Russian ultranationalist and philosopher who has been a fierce proponent of Russia’s war in Ukraine. A friend of Dugina also told the Russian state owned news outlet TASS shortly after the explosion that the car she was driving was her father’s. Just days after Dugina’s death, Russian authorities accused a Ukrainian woman of remotely detonating explosives planted in Dugina’s Toyota Land Cruiser Prado, and then driving through the Pskov region and into Estonia to escape. Oleksii Danylov, secretary of Ukraine’s National Security Council, immediately denied the allegation. “We have nothing to do with the murder of this lady – this is the work of the Russian special services,” he said in August . Zelensky adviser Mykhailo Podolyak also said at the time that the Russian accusation reflected the “fictional world” the Russian government is operating in. The intelligence surrounding Ukraine’s involvement, if accurate, would signal a bold expansion of Ukraine’s covert operations to target a well-known political figure just outside of Moscow. To date, Ukrainian strikes inside Russia have largely been limited to attacks on fuel depots and military bases in cities along the Russia-Ukraine border, like Belgorod. But the US does not have good visibility into all of Ukraine’s planned strikes, sources told CNN. A Ukrainian official told CNN that the US intelligence community’s findings had not been broached during a meeting between US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan and Zelensky’s chief of staff Andriy Yermak in Istanbul earlier this week. It is not clear whether the issue was raised more recently by President Joe Biden in a phone call with Zelensky on Tuesday. A spokesperson for the National Security Council declined to comment. Dugina, who was 29 when she was killed, was a public figure in her own right and frequently appeared as a commentator on Russian TV networks pushing anti-West, nationalist narratives. As CNN has previously reported , Dugina also ran an English- and Turkish-language website called United World International, which itself was part of a broader propaganda effort known as “Project Lakhta.” The State Department has accused Project Lakhta of deploying online “trolls” to interfere in US elections. The US sanctioned both Dugin and Dugina after Russia’s invasion in February, accusing them of spreading propaganda and acting to destabilize Ukraine. This story has been updated with additional reporting Wednesday. CNN’s Victoria Butenko contributed to this report. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Olympics US Sports Climbing Motorsport Formula E Esports Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa 2 Degrees CNN Heroes All Features Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"? Audio Live TV Follow CNN Politics Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2022 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. 