 CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. Close Ad Feedback World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom More Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Audio Live TV Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Follow CNN World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Olympics US Sports Climbing Motorsport Formula E Esports Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa 2 Degrees CNN Heroes All Features Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN unable to render partial image without a supplied context Biden’s new mission: Heading off any possibility of a nuclear crisis with Russia Analysis by Stephen Collinson , CNN Updated 1:26 AM EDT, Thu September 22, 2022 Link Copied! Ad Feedback Video Ad Feedback Russia-Ukraine conflict U.S. President Joe Biden addresses the 77th Session of the United Nations General Assembly at U.N. Headquarters in New York City, U.S., September 21, 2022. REUTERS/Brendan McDermid Brian McDermid/Reuters Now playing 02:02 Watch Biden direct response to Putin's words of escalation Surveillance footage from fixed cameras on the Kerch bridge shows the moment of a large explosion on the roadway, with some vehicles apparently caught in the blast. (Telegram) Telegram Now playing 03:23 Surveillance footage captures large explosion on key bridge to Russian-annexed Crimea Now playing 03:36 See Russians lining up to leave their homeland in defiance of Putin Now playing 04:01 Morale is plummeting in Putin's private army as Russia's war in Ukraine falters Telegram Now playing 02:38 Video shows Ukraine's counter-offensive against Russian army Now playing 02:41 Ukrainian forces retake territory. See what's happening on the ground CNN Now playing 05:28 Former CIA chief doesn't think Putin is planning a nuclear strike. Here's why Now playing 03:42 CNN team meets relieved Ukrainians in newly liberated town Now playing 02:08 Ex-US defense secretary says if Putin resorts to nukes, he's likely to use this weapon Now playing 01:59 Retired colonel calls this move by Ukrainians 'significant' CNN Now playing 01:27 Retired colonel explains what Russia's military strategy is now From Twitter Now playing 02:58 Social media video of Russian recruits reveals reality on the frontlines CNN Now playing 02:15 How Ukraine's recapture of key town advances their position Reuters Now playing 01:34 Putin admits mistakes were made during mobilization Now playing 04:19 CNN among the first inside the city of Lyman as Russian forces retreat CNN Now playing 03:19 'Utter ferocity': See the devastating scene in a newly-liberated Ukrainian town See More Videos CNN — US President Joe Biden’s historic mission is now clear — shepherding the world through the most alarming nuclear brinkmanship since the darkest days of the Cold War. All of Biden’s other challenges – from high inflation, Covid-19, climate change and the building showdown with China – pale against the peril posed by Russian President Vladimir Putin’s fresh escalation of the war in Ukraine. Putin’s implied threat that he could use nuclear weapons, delivered in a speech on Wednesday – and his warning that he was not bluffing – made Biden’s own speech at the UN General Assembly seem all the more grave. “This war is about extinguishing Ukraine’s right to exist as a state and Ukrainians’ right to exist as a people,” Biden said, branding the invasion as a direct assault on the rule-based order epitomized by the UN. “That should make your blood run cold,” he added. UNTV Zelensky calls for Russia to be stripped of UN veto power Putin’s announcement of a partial national mobilization is being seen outside Russia as an admission of failure for his Ukraine operation so far, and of rising domestic political pressure. But forthcoming referenda in captured Ukrainian territory on joining Russia, that are described by the West as a sham, take the war to a tense new stage. Video Ad Feedback 02:25 - Source: CNN Video: Putin's threats and military escalation explained If these areas do join Russia, Ukrainian attacks on them using Western arms could in theory be interpreted as an assault on the Russian motherland itself. This potentially makes Putin’s threat to use nuclear arms to defend Russian territory a significant escalation. The Russian leader is clearly seeking to scare Western publics and to make Washington and allied capitals think again about their support for Ukraine, which has helped turn his invasion into such a disaster. Putin could well be bluffing about the possible use of Russia’s nuclear arsenal. But then again, maybe he’s not. CNN’s Chief Law Enforcement and Intelligence analyst John Miller said the Central Intelligence Agency and the Defense Intelligence Agency have spent years studying Putin’s psychology, including his obsessions with masculinity and appearing tough and what effect those concerns could have on him if he begins to look weak. “The use of a nuclear weapon is the most serious kind of strategic decision a world leader can make, but with a leader who is as invested as Putin is with image, there may be an emotional factor in that decision,” Miller said. “So right now, no one in the US intelligence Community is estimating the likelihood of the use of a tactical nuclear weapon at zero,” Miller said. Putin certainly has a history of following through on many threats. And Ukrainian generals and foreign military experts have raised fears that, if cornered, the Russian leader might deploy a limited tactical nuclear weapon as a show of force or to take out multiple assets or military units. Miller said the most urgent question now for the West – and one that should be discussed by leaders at the UN General Assembly – is what to do about the potential use of a tactical nuclear weapon by Russia. “If such a weapon were deployed against Ukrainians in a limited manner, what would the response be both from NATO, the United States and the world? There are still countries sitting on the fence about condemning Russia’s actions and joining in sanctions. Would the deployment of a tactical nuclear weapon galvanize the world against Putin? If it would, has he figured that out, and does he care?” Miller said. President Joe Biden, with Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh, left, speaks about a tentative railway labor agreement in the Rose Garden of the White House, Thursday, Sept. 15, 2022, in Washington. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh) Susan Walsh/AP Biden tells the United Nations that Putin's attempts to 'extinguish' Ukraine should 'make your blood run cold' While tactical nuclear weapons create a lower blast radius and more limited fallout than strategic warheads, launching even the most limited type of such a weapon would be “an enormous game-changer,” Miller added. “The key question right now is: have NATO and the United States agreed on exactly what they would do in that scenario and has that been transmitted through the right back channels to Russia. We are in a high stakes game of chicken,” he said. Any use of a tactical nuclear weapon would cross a threshold in the history of warfare and leave the West with a conundrum about how to respond without triggering a full-on nuclear exchange. And even if the nuclear poker stops now, Putin has already established a sinister new example just with the mention of Russia’s nuclear arsenal as leverage in a limited conflict. Other tyrannical regimes and wannabe nuclear states are picking up tips. At a time when the idea of nuclear non-proliferation is under extreme strain, Biden had this warning: “A nuclear war cannot be won, and must never be fought.” Other presidents have often said something similar. But he’s the first US commander-in-chief in 40 years who must wrestle with a full scale nuclear showdown not as a theoretical possibility but as a real, if hopefully still remote, risk. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Olympics US Sports Climbing Motorsport Formula E Esports Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa 2 Degrees CNN Heroes All Features Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN World Audio Live TV Follow CNN Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2022 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. 