 CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. Close Ad Feedback xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"? The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms More The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms Audio Live TV Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms Follow CNN Politics World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Olympics US Sports Climbing Motorsport Formula E Esports Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa 2 Degrees CNN Heroes All Features Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Ukrainian forces aim to retake Kherson by year’s end as gains made in south, US and Ukrainian officials say By Jim Sciutto and Tim Lister , CNN Updated 9:18 AM EDT, Wed September 7, 2022 Link Copied! Ad Feedback Ukrainian troops hoist flag above building in Vysokopillya, in southern Kherson region. @AndriyYermak/Twitter Washington CNN — One week into a new counteroffensive , Ukrainian forces are making gains in the south, with the ambitious goal of taking back most of the Russian-occupied region of Kherson by the end of the year, senior US officials and Ukrainian officials tell CNN. The last week has seen the most ambitious ground assaults by the Ukrainians since the beginning of the invasion, following sustained attacks on command posts, ammunition stores, and fuel reserves far behind the front lines, according to geolocation of video and satellite imagery. The US has observed Ukrainian forces achieve some success in attacking Russian supply lines, with the intention of cutting off and isolating Russian troops currently deployed west of the Dnipro River, according to a senior US official. “What we’ve seen in the Kherson region first is some continued offensive operations by the Ukrainians,” Pentagon press secretary Air Force Brig. Gen. Pat Ryder told reporters. “They continue to make some forward movement. We are aware that they have retaken some villages.” Ryder also said that the US has seen “some offensive Russian activity … near Bakhmut.” According to Ukrainian officials, the goal is to take at least all territory north or west of the Dnipro River, including not only the city of Kherson but also Nova Kakhovka, site of an important hydroelectric plant as well as the canal that supplies Crimea with much of its water. SERGEI SUPINSKY/AFP/AFP via Getty Images US military working on analysis to shape and support Ukraine's military in long term At the same time, Ukrainian forces have stepped up attacks in Eastern Ukraine in order to prevent Russia from shifting forces to the South to attempt to repel the Ukrainian counteroffensive there, US officials said. In recent days, Ukrainian forces have pushed towards Russian supply lines south of Kharkiv, taking several villages and towns in the process. The current offensive in the south is broad-based – extending more than 100 miles wide – to prevent Russian units from concentrating on one point. Additionally, there has been an uptick in sabotage operations and attacks on pro-Russian officials in occupied areas. US officials acknowledge the Ukrainian goal of recapturing Kherson by the end of 2022 is ambitious but remains possible if Ukraine continues to make progress in its current operations. Ukrainian forces are planning for a long and brutal campaign to retake Russian-controlled territory. The current Ukrainian push is expected to extend into the Spring, with some of the attacks now intended to prepare the battlefield for planned advances over the next several months. Ukraine has been publicly signaling for months that it intended to launch a major counteroffensive to retake territory lost to Russia in the six-month war. And even before Ukrainian forces began increasing their artillery rocket and missile fire on the front lines in southern Ukraine, Kyiv had been actively disrupting Russian resupply efforts and command and control across the region. In the buildup to the current Ukrainian counteroffensive , the US urged Kyiv to keep the operation limited in both its objectives and its geography to avoid getting overextended and bogged down on multiple fronts, multiple US and western officials and Ukrainian sources previously told CNN. Those discussions involved engaging in “war-gaming” with Kyiv, the sources said – analytical exercises that were intended to help the Ukrainian forces understand what force levels they would need to muster to be successful in different scenarios. The Ukrainians were initially considering a broader counteroffensive , but narrowed their mission to the south, in the Kherson region, in recent weeks, US and Ukrainian officials previously said. CNN’s Paul LeBlanc, Katie Bo Lillis and Natasha Bertrand contributed to this report. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Olympics US Sports Climbing Motorsport Formula E Esports Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa 2 Degrees CNN Heroes All Features Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"? Audio Live TV Follow CNN Politics Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2022 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. 