 CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. Close Ad Feedback World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom More Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Audio Live TV Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Follow CNN World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Olympics US Sports Climbing Motorsport Formula E Esports Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa 2 Degrees CNN Heroes All Features Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN New photos show Russian warship Moskva before it sank By Jonny Hallam , Brad Lendon , Uliana Pavlova and Ivana Kottasová , CNN Updated 3:01 PM EDT, Tue April 19, 2022 Link Copied! Ad Feedback Video Ad Feedback Russia-Ukraine conflict Images emerged early Monday, April 18, on social media showing Russia's guided-missile cruiser, the Moskva, badly damaged and on fire in the hours before the ship sunk in the Black Sea on Thursday. From Social Media Now playing 01:32 New images appear to show final moments of Russian warship Surveillance footage from fixed cameras on the Kerch bridge shows the moment of a large explosion on the roadway, with some vehicles apparently caught in the blast. (Telegram) Telegram Now playing 03:23 Surveillance footage captures large explosion on key bridge to Russian-annexed Crimea Now playing 03:36 See Russians lining up to leave their homeland in defiance of Putin Now playing 04:01 Morale is plummeting in Putin's private army as Russia's war in Ukraine falters Telegram Now playing 02:38 Video shows Ukraine's counter-offensive against Russian army Now playing 02:41 Ukrainian forces retake territory. See what's happening on the ground CNN Now playing 05:28 Former CIA chief doesn't think Putin is planning a nuclear strike. Here's why Now playing 03:42 CNN team meets relieved Ukrainians in newly liberated town Now playing 02:08 Ex-US defense secretary says if Putin resorts to nukes, he's likely to use this weapon Now playing 01:59 Retired colonel calls this move by Ukrainians 'significant' CNN Now playing 01:27 Retired colonel explains what Russia's military strategy is now From Twitter Now playing 02:58 Social media video of Russian recruits reveals reality on the frontlines CNN Now playing 02:15 How Ukraine's recapture of key town advances their position Reuters Now playing 01:34 Putin admits mistakes were made during mobilization Now playing 04:19 CNN among the first inside the city of Lyman as Russian forces retreat CNN Now playing 03:19 'Utter ferocity': See the devastating scene in a newly-liberated Ukrainian town See More Videos CNN — New photos and a short video clip emerged early Monday on social media showing Russia’s guided-missile cruiser, the Moskva, badly damaged and on fire in the hours before the ship sank in the Black Sea on Thursday. The sinking of the Black Sea fleet flagship was the biggest wartime loss of a naval ship in 40 years – and a huge embarrassment for Russia. The images show the Moskva listing to one side, with black holes from possible missile puncture marks, and significant scarring at and just above the waterline on the port (left) side in the middle of the vessel. A large plume of black smoke can be seen billowing upwards, partly obscuring the front of the stricken ship. Analysts who spoke to CNN confirmed that the warship in the images looked like the Moskva, a Slava Class guided-missile destroyer and the flagship of Russian’s Black Sea fleet. Ukraine and Russia have provided conflicting accounts of what happened during Thursday’s incident in the Black Sea. Moscow has denied the Ukrainian version of events – that the Moskva sunk after being struck by Ukrainian missiles – but it admitted the ship went down. Russia has insisted the reason for the sinking was a fire, but the US on Friday confirmed Ukraine’s account, with a senior defense official saying that the US believes that two Ukrainian Neptune missiles hit the Russian warship. Women clean in a building with a collapsed facade at the Vizar company military-industrial complex, after the site was hit by overnight Russian strikes, in the town of Vyshneve, southwestern suburbs of Kyiv, on April 15, 2022. - A Ukrainian military factory outside Kyiv that produced missiles allegedly used to hit Russia's Moskva warship was partly destroyed by overnight Russian strikes, an AFP journalist at the scene saw on April 15. A workshop and an administrative building at the Vizar plant were seriously damaged. (Photo by FADEL SENNA / AFP) (Photo by FADEL SENNA/AFP via Getty Images) Fadel Senna/AFP/Getty Images 'We all realize that we will not be forgiven.' Ukraine braces for new assault after sinking of Russian flagship Carl Schuster, a retired US Navy captain and former director of operations at the US Pacific Command’s Joint Intelligence Center told CNN on Monday it was likely the missiles penetrated below the ship’s bridge and detonated. “Assuming the photo is not faked in some way or photo-shopped, it looks like the missile(s) hit forward, which is not unexpected,” he said. “Anti-Ship Cruise Missiles (ASCMs) tend to go for the center of the radar return, which typically is the forward section of the superstructure.” Independent defense analyst and author, H I Sutton, told CNN the damage shown on the photos “does not rule out a missile strike(s), and it remains the likely cause.” “Possible puncture marks in the side of the hull are visible below where the fire is. But these would need closer examination to confirm whether they were caused by missiles or are simply fire damage,” he said. The Moskva was armed with a range of anti-ship and anti-aircraft missiles as well as torpedoes, naval guns and missile defense systems, meaning it would have had large amounts of explosives aboard. The Russian military has not released any information about casualties aboard the Moskva. Russia’s Ministry of Defense released a video Saturday showing what was described as officers and sailors of the sunken warship standing in formation two rows deep. The number of sailors in formation was not clear. It was unclear how many crew members were aboard, or how many survived. Sutton says the images show that all the life rafts have been deployed, “All of the aft life raft canisters have been jettisoned, although one remains on the aft deck. This suggests that the crew have already abandoned ship at this point,” he said. A large Russian rescue tug can be seen dousing the warship with water on the far side. Women clean in a building with a collapsed facade at the Vizar company military-industrial complex, after the site was hit by overnight Russian strikes, in the town of Vyshneve, southwestern suburbs of Kyiv, on April 15, 2022. - A Ukrainian military factory outside Kyiv that produced missiles allegedly used to hit Russia's Moskva warship was partly destroyed by overnight Russian strikes, an AFP journalist at the scene saw on April 15. A workshop and an administrative building at the Vizar plant were seriously damaged. (Photo by FADEL SENNA / AFP) (Photo by FADEL SENNA/AFP via Getty Images) Fadel Senna/AFP/Getty Images 'We all realize that we will not be forgiven.' Ukraine braces for new assault after sinking of Russian flagship The Kremlin on Monday said it had seen the photos of the Moskva, but that they could not verify them. “Yes, we really saw the footage, but we cannot say how authentic and true it is,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. A senior US defense official who said that they had also seen the photos and video of the ship burning told CNN Monday the US “can’t independently verify those images.” “But the images themselves comport with what we had assessed to be the damage done to the ship,” the official said. The photographers of the images and video are unknown, but they were taken from a vessel close to the stricken warship. In the short video taken from the same vantage point a voice from an unseen person can be heard shouting in Russian: “F**k (inaudible) what you did!” The Moskva was one of Russia’s most visible assets in the Ukraine war and its loss could impact the morale of Russian troops. Tellingly, the Russian government has not acknowledged casualties in the sinking of the ship, a marked contrast to the very public discussion about the Kursk submarine disaster, which claimed the lives of 118 sailors in 2000. Analysts say the loss of the warship would have struck hard at the heart of the Russian navy as well as national pride, comparable to the US Navy losing a battleship during World War II or an aircraft carrier today. “Only the loss of a ballistic missile submarine or the Kutznetsov (Russia’s lone aircraft carrier) would inflict a more serious blow to Russian morale and the navy’s reputation with the Russian public,” Schuster said. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Olympics US Sports Climbing Motorsport Formula E Esports Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa 2 Degrees CNN Heroes All Features Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN World Audio Live TV Follow CNN Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2022 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. 