 CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. Close Ad Feedback xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"? The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms More The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms Audio Live TV Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms Follow CNN Politics US Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2020 Election Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Video Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Coupons More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN US concerned Kyiv could fall to Russia within days, sources familiar with intel say By Jim Sciutto and Katie Bo Williams , CNN Updated 9:40 AM EST, Fri February 25, 2022 Link Copied! Ad Feedback Video Ad Feedback Crisis in Ukraine Petro Poroshenko Former President of Ukraine CNN Now playing 01:45 Former Ukrainian president is on the streets with a rifle Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky speakds during an address posted to his official Facebook account in early hours Thursday local time. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky/Facebook Now playing 01:38 Zelensky makes appeal to Russian citizens CNN Now playing 02:19 CNN visits town near front lines hit by recent shelling CNN Now playing 01:00 'It won't be bloodless. There will be suffering ...' : Pentagon warns Putin if Russia launches full-scale invasion CNN Now playing 01:35 Russian journalist on what Russians are hearing from state media about Ukraine Reuters Now playing 02:19 CNN correspondent: This part of Russia-Ukraine border is teeming with military equipment CNN Now playing 01:58 Map shows what a potential Russian invasion may look like now CNN Now playing 00:49 Ukrainian President responds to Putin's speech Reuters Now playing 01:57 'Madness': Putin addresses Ukraine during speech CNN's Clarissa Ward CNN Now playing 01:26 Here's what Putin said that made CNN's Clarissa Ward 'sit up straight' Getty Images Now playing 03:03 Putin: Macron said US position has 'changed' CNN Now playing 02:42 This is what it's like to live on Ukraine's front line CNN/AP Now playing 01:22 Is Putin bluffing? See Secretary of State's response Now playing 02:25 Ukraine residents fleeing from capital city amid growing tensions CNN Now playing 00:42 CNN team in Ukraine comes under mortar fire Now playing 03:41 Zelensky says he understands Russia and when Ukraine is being provoked See More Videos CNN — US intelligence officials are concerned that Kyiv could fall under Russian control within days, according to two sources familiar with the latest intelligence. The sources said that the initial US assessment from before the invasion – which anticipated that the Ukrainian capital would be overrun within one to four days of a Russian attack – remains the current expectation. Russian forces have moved to within 20 miles of Kyiv, senior administration officials told lawmakers on Capitol Hill Thursday night. Al Drago/Bloomberg/Getty Images Biden wages first showdown of new Cold War-style duel with Russia Officials believe Russia has been facing stiffer resistance from Ukrainian forces than it anticipated, according to the sources. But the officials in that briefing to Capitol Hill declined to say whether they believed Kyiv would fall. Western intelligence officials assess that Russia’s plan is to topple the government in Kyiv and install a Russia-friendly proxy government, but they don’t yet know whether Russian President Vladimir Putin will seek to occupy and hold Ukrainian territory afterwards, one of the sources familiar with the intelligence told CNN. Ukrainian officials have vowed to resist any occupation. Ukrainians in Kyiv huddled in air raid shelters Friday morning as a battle for the city raged overhead and Ukrainian forces sought to hold back rapidly advancing Russian troops by blowing up a key bridge. Before dawn, explosions lit up the sky as Russia targeted Kyiv with missile strikes, according to a Ukrainian government adviser. A CNN team reported hearing two large blasts in central Kyiv and a third loud explosion in the distance, followed by at least three more explosions to the southwest of the city a few hours later. “Strikes on Kyiv with cruise or ballistic missiles continued,” Anton Gerashchenko, adviser to the Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, told reporters Friday via text message. TOPSHOT - Ukrainian military vehicles move past Independence square in central Kyiv on February 24, 2022. - Air raid sirens rang out in downtown Kyiv today as cities across Ukraine were hit with what Ukrainian officials said were Russian missile strikes and artillery. Russian President announced a military operation in Ukraine on February 24, 2022, with explosions heard soon after across the country and its foreign minister warning a "full-scale invasion" was underway. (Photo by Daniel LEAL / AFP) (Photo by DANIEL LEAL/AFP via Getty Images) DANIEL LEAL/AFP/Getty Images Battle for Ukrainian capital underway as Russian troops seek to encircle Kyiv Meanwhile, the Ukrainian Defense Ministry said Russian reconnaissance troops had entered the Obolon district of northern Kyiv, just a few miles from the city center. Videos from the area showed chaotic scenes as civilians tried to hide from small arms fire. A tweet from the ministry asked citizens of the district to report any suspicious movements, adding: “Make Molotov cocktails and take down the occupier.” A Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee, told CNN Friday that if Russia were to capture Kyiv, the US should arm resistance fighters in the country. “It certainly does impact our response about who we’re actually arming,” Rep. Ruben Gallego said. “At that point, we have to make the realization that the Ukrainian military as we know it may be compromised and then, I think, we have to shift to actually supporting partisans and resistance fighters who are willing to take up the fight against Russia.” This story has been updated with additional background information. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio US Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Audio CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Coupons Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"? Audio Live TV Follow CNN Politics Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2022 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. 