World Africa Americas Asia Australia More China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Audio Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Search Audio Edition U.S. International Arabic Español Edition U.S. International Arabic Español US Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food and Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Audio CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Coupons Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Follow CNN October 6, 2020 Russia-Ukraine news By Kathleen Magramo , Sana Noor Haq, Aditi Sangal , Adrienne Vogt , Melissa Macaya, Matt Meyer and Maureen Chowdhury, CNN Updated 2:26 AM ET, Fri October 7, 2022 What we covered At least seven people were killed in a Russian missile attack on the southern Ukrainian city of Zaporizhzhia, officials said. The strikes came just hours after President Vladimir Putin declared Russia was moving to formally seize the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant. The UN nuclear watchdog chief visited Kyiv on Thursday to discuss nuclear safety and said he'd travel to Moscow "very soon." Meanwhile, Kyiv's forces continue to press ahead with gains in the south and east , including in regions Russia claims to have annexed in violation of international law. Ukrainian military officials said Thursday that their units crossed into the strategic eastern Luhansk region for the first time since the conflict began. 19 Posts Sort by Latest Oldest 12:01 p.m. ET, October 6, 2022 Ukrainian officials confirm advance into Luhansk region, saying units "keep moving in that direction" From CNN's Tim Lister Ukrainian soldiers stand at the entrance to the village of Hrekivka, inside Luhansk region. (Obtained by CNN) Serhiy Hayday, head of the Luhansk region military administration, has confirmed that Ukrainian troops have re-entered the eastern Luhansk region and will "keep moving in that direction." CNN reported Wednesday that Ukrainian units had entered the village of Hrekivka in Luhansk. "I've seen some soldiers already posted a photo of them standing on the background of the sign 'Hrekivka', so its not a secret anymore — it is already liberated. And we keep moving in that direction," Hayday posted on Telegram. Hayday said he expected difficult battles ahead as Ukrainian forces push into Luhansk, now absorbed into Russia after President Vladimir Putin signed a decree declaring the annexation of the region. "After liberating Lyman [in Donetsk at the end of last month], as expected, the main battles are on the direction of Kreminna. The occupiers are pulling their main forces there. This is where the beginning of de-occupation of Luhansk oblast lies," Hayday said. "Luhansk region liberation will be tougher than Kharkiv region. All those Russian military who ran from Kharkiv region and Lyman ran to our direction, so the occupation forces increased in number," he added. "There will be no element of surprise, like during the Kharkiv region operation. Now they had the time to prepare, to build fortifications, to entrench deeper, to bring in some equipment, some reserves. However, I believe in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and I believe that the forces of L/DPR [Luhansk and Donetsk People's Republics] will not be able to hold the defense for long," he continued. More on Ukraine's counteroffensive: Between April and June, the Ukrainian military was gradually pushed out of parts of Luhansk region that it held. Several towns and cities in the region were largely destroyed in weeks of bitter fighting. Analysts expect Russian forces and their allies to seek to defend new lines running north from Kreminna to Svatove. 11:01 a.m. ET, October 6, 2022 Ukrainian refugees are being blocked from fleeing Russia and trucked away, Estonian interior minister says From CNN’s Teele Rebana and Joseph Ataman More than 1,000 Ukrainian refugees trying to enter Estonia from Russia have been stopped from fleeing and taken to an undisclosed location, according to Estonia’s interior minister. “Trucks came, they were put in trucks and taken away or were driven away," Interior Minister Lauri Läänemets said in a radio interview Wednesday. "Where they went, where they are we don't know. The police and board guard is working to gather that information at the moment.” The Ukrainian embassy accused Russia of blocking Estonians from crossing the border in a Facebook post Wednesday, following a visit by the Ukrainian ambassador and Läänemets to the border. Läänemets said Estonia’s border guard is patrolling with drones in case Russia forces the Ukrainians across forested parts of the border back into Russia. On Thursday, an Estonian border official said there are as many as a few hundred vehicles waiting on the Russian side of the southeastern Luhamaa and Koidula border crossings. Russian President Vladimir Putin's "partial mobilization" order has sparked a surge in border crossings . Earlier Thursday, the Kremlin said it does not have the “exact numbers” of people who have fled since the order was announced on Sept. 21. 10:51 a.m. ET, October 6, 2022 "We have to stop lying," Russian lawmaker urges senior officials to tell the truth about battle developments From CNN's Uliana Pavlova, Josh Pennington and Alex Stambaugh Chairman of the Committee on Defence of Russia's State Duma Andrei Kartapolov, center, takes part in the Immortal Regiment march on Victory Day in Volgograd, Russia, on May 9. (Kirill Braga/Reuters) The head of Russia’s State Duma Defense Committee demanded officials report the truth about developments on the battlefield in Ukraine, telling a journalist that senior figures need to "stop lying." “First of all, we need to stop lying. We brought this up many times before… But somehow it's apparently not getting through to individual senior figures," Col. Gen. Andrei Kartapolov said in an interview with Vladimir Solovyov, which was posted on Solovyov's Telegram channel on Wednesday. “Our Russian city of Valuyki… is under constant fire,” Kartapolov said in the interview. “We learn about this from all sorts of folks, from governors, Telegram channels, our war correspondents. But no one else." "The reports from the Ministry of Defense do not change in substance. They say they destroyed 300 rockets, killed Nazis and so on. But people know. Our people are not stupid. But they don’t want to even tell part of the truth. This can lead to a loss of credibility,” he continued, using Russian President Vladimir Putin's false accusations of Nazism to justify his war in Ukraine. Valuyki is in the region of Belgorod in western Russian, near the border with Ukraine. CNN's Lauren Said-Moorhouse and Mick Krever contributed previous reporting to this post. 10:41 a.m. ET, October 6, 2022 Kremlin says it welcomes reports that US intelligence believes Ukraine was behind Dugina assassination From CNN's Uliana Pavlova and Tim Lister Flowers and candles are placed next to a portrait of media commentator Darya Dugina in Moscow, Russia, on August 22. (Maxim Shemetov/Reuters) Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov welcomed news reports in the United States that the US intelligence community suspected Ukrainian officials were behind the bombing that killed activist Darya Dugina near Moscow in August. CNN reported Wednesday that the US intelligence community believed that the car bombing that killed Dugina, daughter of prominent Russian nationalist Alexander Dugin, was authorized by elements within the Ukrainian government. The US was not aware of the plan beforehand, according to the sources who spoke with CNN, and it is still unclear who exactly the US believes signed off on the assassination. It is also not clear whether the US intelligence community believes that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky was aware of the plot or authorized it. The intelligence finding was first reported by The New York Times. Peskov added that he hoped US was not trying to distance itself from any future crimes allegedly planned by Kyiv. “We really want to believe that this is not an attempt by American colleagues, having obtained some information, to relieve themselves of responsibility from the preparation of future terrorist acts by the Kyiv state,” Peskov said during the daily Kremlin call with reporters. “If this is not a fake, then it is indeed positive that American intelligence agreed with this,” Peskov said. More background: Ukrainian government officials did not immediately respond to CNN's requests for comment. They have previously denied any Ukrainian involvement in the murder. “The Kremlin stands by the same information from the Russian special services since the beginning. The involvement of the Ukrainian state in this terrorist act, in this murder of a young girl, was argued and shown by our special services,” Peskov said. “Quite promptly, those responsible were established, and who the customers were is clear enough,” he said. The Russian security service, the FSB, published the name of the alleged assailant within two days of the assassination, saying that she was working on behalf of Ukrainian special services. By then, she had left Russia via Estonia by car, according to the FSB. She has not been seen since. 9:36 a.m. ET, October 6, 2022 Ukrainian official: Teachers in Moscow-occupied regions are being ordered to promote "Russian world" From CNN's Julia Kesaieva Russian-backed authorities are beginning "to forcibly nationalize local enterprises and property and transfer them to the so-called local administrations," Ukrainian Deputy Defense Minister, Hanna Maliar, said on Telegram on Thursday. "In the educational sphere, the occupiers are ordering local educational institutions to implement the requirements of Russian propaganda aimed at justifying military aggression and imposing the Russian interpretation of history," she said. Maliar also alleged that educational institutions in Zaporizhzhia region had received an order that required teachers to promote the "Russian world" and explain the need for a referendum to the local population. CNN is unable to independently verify these claims. 9:25 a.m. ET, October 6, 2022 Ukraine claims Russian mobilization is facing problems as recruits try to avoid serving From CNN's Julia Kesaieva Ukrainian intelligence indicates that Russian authorities are having multiple problems with the "partial mobilization" order announced last month, Ukrainian Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Maliar said. Maliar said on Telegram that according to the Ukrainian defense intelligence, "a significant number of men of military age fled abroad to evade mobilization or are trying to pay not to be drafted. Some people resorted to self-mutilation, faked illnesses and were even ready to receive a certificate of unfitness from psychiatric departments of hospitals." Recruits were often buying equipment at their own expense and the training of conscripts was "carried out in a very short time — or they were immediately sent from the military commissariats to the area of hostilities," Maliar added, also claiming that "Russian command is massively burning the bodies of dead [soldiers], including those recently mobilized, to conceal real losses." CNN is unable to verify independently Maliar's comments but has examined multiple videos suggesting that the mobilization is not going according to plan, with a lack of training and equipment at the heart of the problem. 10:25 a.m. ET, October 6, 2022 Russian-appointed leader in Kherson berates Putin’s "incompetent commanders" From CNN's Olga Voitovych in Kyiv and Jo Shelley in London Kirill Stremousov, deputy head of the Russian-backed Kherson administration, is pictured in his office, in the city of Kherson, Ukraine, on July 20. (Getty Images) The Russian-appointed deputy leader of occupied Kherson in southern Ukraine said that "gaps” on the battlefield in the region are down to “incompetent commanders." “There is no need to somehow cast a shadow over the entire Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation because of some — I do not say traitors — but incompetent commanders who did not bother, and were not accountable, for the processes and gaps that exist today,” Kirill Stremousov said in a four-minute video posted to the Telegram messaging app on Thursday. “Indeed, many say that the Minister of Defense [Sergei Shoigu], who allowed this situation to happen, could, as an officer, shoot himself. But, you know, the word officer is an unfamiliar word for many,” he added. Stremousov contrasted what he called a “small number” of “corrupt marauders and other miscellaneous riffraff” in Russia’s Defense Ministry with “heroes” on the frontline. “All those who gave their lives, who stand to the end, are heroes,” he said. “I know them personally, because I am at the forefront.” What Kyiv is saying: Ukraine claimed on Thursday that it had liberated more than 400 square kilometers (155 square miles) in the Kherson region in an unspecified timeframe. “Our successes are quite convincing. We do not name the directions, but more than 400 square kilometers of the Kherson region have already been liberated from the occupiers,” said Natalia Humeniuk, a spokesperson for Ukraine's Operational Command South. Stremousov denied this, saying in the caption to his video that Russian troops were “holding back the onslaught” and Ukraine’s advances “had been stopped.” The Kherson region in southern Ukraine is partially occupied by Russia but the Ukrainian Armed Forces have made significant gains in the past week. On Wednesday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said the communities of Novovoskresenske, Novohryhorivka and Petropavlivka had been liberated, suggesting that Ukrainian forces are making progress through the largely rural hinterland of Kherson. 10:31 a.m. ET, October 6, 2022 UN nuclear watchdog chief due in Kyiv after Putin announces seizure of Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant From CNN’s Jo Shelley A serviceman with a Russian flag on his uniform stands guard near the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant outside the Russian-controlled city of Enerhodar, Ukraine, on August 4. (Alexander Ermochenko/Reuters) The head of the United Nations’s nuclear watchdog is set to arrive in Kyiv Thursday to discuss creating a protection zone around the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, after Russian President Vladimir Putin declared the facility a federal asset. Rafael Mariano Grossi, the Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), will hold “talks aimed at agreeing and implementing a nuclear safety and security protection zone around the ZNPP (Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant) as soon as possible," according to an IAEA press release . Grossi will also visit Russia, it added. “The need for a Nuclear Safety and Security Protection Zone (NSSPZ) around ‪#Zaporizhzhya Nuclear Power Plant is now more urgent than ever," he tweeted Wednesday alongside photos from his journey to the Ukrainian capital. Separately, there are plans to restart one of the six reactors at the Zaporizhzhia plant, which "are currently cold in shutdown," according to the IAEA news release. Senior Ukrainian operating staff told IAEA experts at the complex that arrangements are underway to start the reactor at a lower level of power to create steam and heat necessary for the plant. "It will take some time to complete all preparations, including those related to necessary systems and equipment, before reactor operations can resume," the press release said. Some background: Grossi's trip to Kyiv comes amid heated confrontation over the status of the plant, after Putin signed a decree on Wednesday that puts Zaporizhzhia nuclear power under Russian state control. Just as Putin was signing the decree, the Ukrainian state nuclear operator, Energoatom, said its president would assume the duties of the plant's director general -- which has led the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to intervene . The plant in the southeastern Ukrainian region is the largest in Europe and has been held by Russian forces for more than seven months, but is operated by its Ukrainian staff. The Kremlin's annexation of Zaporizhzhia and three other Ukrainian regions has been widely condemned by the international community as "a sham" and is illegal under international law. Moscow does not have full control of the land it claims to have annexed, holding just under three-quarters of Zaporizhzhia. 8:33 a.m. ET, October 6, 2022 Kremlin doesn’t have "exact numbers" on how many have fled Russia’s partial mobilization From CNN's Uliana Pavlova Finnish border guard officers look at cars queueing at the Vaalimaa border crossing between Finland and the Russian Federation on September 30. (Alessandro Rampazzo/AFP/Getty Images) Kremlin does not have the “exact numbers” of people who have fled Russia’s partial mobilization, a spokesperson said on Thursday. Dmitry Peskov was asked about a Forbes Russia report – unconfirmed by CNN – that cited sources close to the Kremlin as saying 700,000 Russians had left the country since President Vladimir Putin announced a mobilization drive on Sept. 21. “I do not have exact numbers, but they are far from 700,000,” Peskov said during his daily call with journalists. Search Audio US Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food and Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Audio CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Coupons Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN World Audio Follow CNN Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility & CC Ad Choices About Us CNN Store Newsletters Transcripts License Footage CNN Newsource Sitemap © 2022 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Please enable JavaScript for a better experience.