 CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. Close Ad Feedback World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom More Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Audio Live TV Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Follow CNN World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Olympics US Sports Climbing Motorsport Formula E Esports Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa 2 Degrees CNN Heroes All Features Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Liberation has finally come to Ukraine’s Kharkiv. But scars of Russia’s brutal occupation remain By Natalie Gallón , Nick Paton Walsh , Kostyantin Gak and Brice Lâiné , CNN Updated 1:24 AM EDT, Tue September 20, 2022 Link Copied! Ad Feedback Video Ad Feedback Russia-Ukraine conflict CNN Now playing 03:40 Russians leave behind odd message after abandoning Ukraine prison building Surveillance footage from fixed cameras on the Kerch bridge shows the moment of a large explosion on the roadway, with some vehicles apparently caught in the blast. (Telegram) Telegram Now playing 03:23 Surveillance footage captures large explosion on key bridge to Russian-annexed Crimea Now playing 03:36 See Russians lining up to leave their homeland in defiance of Putin Now playing 04:01 Morale is plummeting in Putin's private army as Russia's war in Ukraine falters Telegram Now playing 02:38 Video shows Ukraine's counter-offensive against Russian army Now playing 02:41 Ukrainian forces retake territory. See what's happening on the ground CNN Now playing 05:28 Former CIA chief doesn't think Putin is planning a nuclear strike. Here's why Now playing 03:42 CNN team meets relieved Ukrainians in newly liberated town Now playing 02:08 Ex-US defense secretary says if Putin resorts to nukes, he's likely to use this weapon Now playing 01:59 Retired colonel calls this move by Ukrainians 'significant' CNN Now playing 01:27 Retired colonel explains what Russia's military strategy is now From Twitter Now playing 02:58 Social media video of Russian recruits reveals reality on the frontlines CNN Now playing 02:15 How Ukraine's recapture of key town advances their position Reuters Now playing 01:34 Putin admits mistakes were made during mobilization Now playing 04:19 CNN among the first inside the city of Lyman as Russian forces retreat CNN Now playing 03:19 'Utter ferocity': See the devastating scene in a newly-liberated Ukrainian town See More Videos Kupiansk, Ukraine CNN — There is little respite in victory for Ukrainian forces in the recently liberated Kupiansk . Russian shells still hit its pockmarked streets, marring the skyline with plumes of black smoke. Intense damage is visible on nearly every building. A huge billboard with an image of a waving Russian flag stands next to the bridge that crosses the Oskil River in the city center, bearing the words, “We are one people with Russia!” For now, the Ukrainian army has chased Russian forces over the bridge and appears to be building some momentum pushing across the eastern banks of the river towards Luhansk, a key separatist territory controlled by Moscow. CNN witnessed Ukrainian infantry returning from the eastern side on foot. Yet inside this city, one of several in the eastern region of Kharkiv that have been liberated, are the telltale signs of a hellish occupation. A former police building was used as a vast detention center by the Russians, where at one point up to 400 prisoners were held in its cramped and dark cells, with eight or nine prisoners per room, Ukrainian authorities told CNN. A brightly painted mural of a Russian soldier with a “Z” on his armband standing next to an elderly woman waving the flag of the former Soviet empire is still visible on one wall. Before CNN was allowed to enter, a prisoner with his hands bound in glossy blue tape was quickly led outside, placed in a vehicle and driven away. This one was possibly a Russian soldier, according to the Ukrainian Security Service (SBU), who think he either deserted his troops or was left behind. The prisoner claimed to be a local, the SBU said. Just outside of the building’s entrance, two Russian flags tied to wooden poles were strewn on the floor, one with signs of being burned. Inside, rubbish littered the floors of the damp space. Through the narrow hallway were small rooms on each side, where Russians used to keep their prisoners. A few small mattresses and tables were seen in some of the small cells, others held just a table and two chairs, remnants of what could have been an interrogation room. The small rooms where eight to nine prisoners were held by Russian forces in a former police building in Kupiansk. Natalie Gallon/CNN Not all the rooms had been cleared of possible explosives, officials told CNN. A grenade booby trap sat on a bench inside a cell, held in place by a half-eaten food tin. As CNN walked through the center, an SBU officer noticed the trap and wrote “Grenade!!!” on the wall outside the cell with a black marker and an arrow to show exactly which room investigators should enter. The door was closed. As the investigations continue, Ukrainian officials are discovering other scars too, like those from alleged torture. A former prisoner who was introduced to CNN by the Ukrainian Security Services said he was imprisoned in the building about a month ago. Walking through the corridor, he showed CNN the room where he said the Russians interrogated him. “They put me on this chair,” the former prisoner – who CNN has not named for his safety – said, pointing. “There the investigator sat, and there was the guy with the telephone and another one who helped.” The telephone was an old wind-up model that he said was used to send electric shocks into him. He thinks his interrogator was experienced in this method from their time in the Russian Security Services, the FSB. The occupiers asked him who he was in touch with from the Ukrainian army, and told them he was once a cook in the army, he said. “They told me, ‘You think you are tough. Let’s find out how tough,’” he said. “They also shot me with some kind of pistol. Here and in the leg,” he told CNN, pointing to his chest and leg. “They promised I’d only see the sun and sky again if they forced me into a minefield,” he said. “The main thing is to survive and to withstand. It took me a week and a half to recover when I got out.” Two Russian flags, one with signs of being burnt, are seen outside of the detention center. Natalie Gallon/CNN The man is not the only one dealing with the scars from a brutal invasion, detention and alleged torture. As authorities continue investigating and clearing liberated towns in the Kharkiv region, they’re finding more and more evidence of detention centers and cells used for torture. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Saturday that “more than 10 torture rooms” used by occupying forces have so far been found in the area. “As the occupiers fled, they also dropped the torture devices,” he said. CNN has reached out to the Russian government for comment but has not received a response. Kupiansk might be recently liberated but the city is a ghost town, punctuated by destruction and debris. The very few locals that remain huddle in its empty husk. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Olympics US Sports Climbing Motorsport Formula E Esports Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa 2 Degrees CNN Heroes All Features Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN World Audio Live TV Follow CNN Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2022 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. 