 Load Sourcepoint stub Load Sourcepoint payload comScore Identifier: comscorekw=portal MarTech (Target) News Sport Business Opinion Cost of living Ukraine Money Life Style Travel Culture Puzzles Subscribe now Free for one month Log in Jump to navigation South Ossetian police tell Georgians to take a Russian passport, or leave their homes The eyes were bloodshot and the face unshaven but the South Ossetian commander used his pen with the precision of an officious clerk. By Damien McElroy in Akhalgori 30 August 2008 • 6:40pm A Georgian policeman checks the identity cards of a family at the final Georgian checkpoint before the Russian forces on road to the South Ossetian village of Akhalgori Credit : Photo: OLI SCARFF The soft-backed school exercise book in which he jotted has become a weapon in Russia's war in Georgia. In Akhalgori, which Russia troops seized on Tuesday as part of an extended buffer zone around South Ossetia, it is a vital tool in a campaign to force ethnic Georgians to accept Russian passports. Akhalgori's residents must register at paramilitary checkpoints, giving details that are passed on to the town police station. At a compulsory interview a new Russian appointed chief of police gives people a stark and simple choice: take a Russian passport, or leave the town. Passports are a vital plank in Russia's strategy of securing a toehold in democratic Georgia. By issuing citizenship to South Ossetians, Russia gained a pretext to invade in early August, claiming to be defending its own from Georgian attacks. Since signing a ceasefire agreement with Georgia two weeks ago, the Russian military and its local allies have carved a substantial buffer zone around the tiny enclave. To consolidate its latest conquests, Moscow has shipped in what Georgian officials describe as "industrial batches" of passports. "The Russians are telling everyone in the town they must take a Russian passport," said Akhalgori shopowner Guram Chkhvidze. "One came to me and explained that if I did not take it, my safety could not be certain. I was scared, so I am leaving." The incorporation of Akhalgori - formally Leningori - into South Ossetia marks a significant expansion of the enclave. The South Ossetia militias claim the town is now administered from the newly fledged capital, Tskhinvali. Journalists looking to enter the town must seek accreditation from the South Ossetia "government". Diplomats have a right of untrammelled access and an Estonian mission was allowed into the town yesterday. The Sunday Telegraph was allowed to spend a short time in Akhalgori yesterday, despite its lack of paperwork. "It is normal here," said the commander. "Life in the town is peaceful. I have no problem with people seeing this." Akhalgori has not been subjected to the wave of looting and destruction that Russian-backed forces have inflicted on other conquered Georgian towns. But its population, which was estimated at 6,800 before the conflict, is believed to have halved in a week. "There is not one single face among the soldiers that I recognise," said Asmat Berianidze, a housewife. "They are from everywhere but here." Hundreds have fled to Georgia rather than accept a new life as Russians. "Georgian residents have been given no choice but to take Russian documents that have been sent in with freshly printed details, lacking only a photograph, which can be inserted on the ground," said Shota Utiashvili, a spokesman for Georgian's Interior Ministry. "They are fleeing instead, and as they leave they have been told they can't come back." To reach Akhalgori from territory controlled by the Georgian government means passing three Russian military checkpoints set along the winding mountain road. One has an armoured personnel carrier dug so deep that its gun is level with the road. At the middle checkpoint, a disused petrol station, Russian tanks are marshalled on the forecourt. There, too, Russian conscripts are digging defences, their torsos glistening with sweat. But South Ossetia's own pro-Russian forces and their mercenary allies hold sway in Akhalgori. Armed fighters carrying assault rifles, some fitted with under-barrel grenade launchers, are spread about the town. While they wear a motley collection of combat fatigues, they are transported in grey Russian army jeeps. The militiamen are clearly not fighting fit. But imbued with the confidence of an occupying power, they constitute a menacing force. Their faces leering, even the tinny Russia pop music blaring from their mobile phones is used as an instrument of harassment. The only residents left are are either too old, or too stubborn. They walk past any South Ossetians with their eyes cast down to the ground. Most give only the most cautious replies when stopped and questioned over conditions in the town. But Mrs Berianidze showed the Sunday Telegraph a wall peppered with the circular discs of bullet holes and described a raucous session designed to frighten everyone who witnessed it. "They were all different nationalities and ethnicities," she said. "It was as if some of them had never met before. But they greeted each other and drank vodka. Then they got drunk and started shooting at the wall. It went on all night." Some would like to leave but cannot. "I want my mother to leave with me," said Maia Mamarukaashvili. "But she won't leave her house and I have to stay with her. I guess we will have to build a new life in this little Russia." Akhalgori is a small town - its only industry is a brewery - but its addition to South Ossetia makes the tiny enclave more viable. Georgian officials fear that by issuing an estimated 4,600 passports in South Ossetia last week, the Kremlin is preparing to annex the territory. South Ossetian officials have set their sights on joining the Russian Federation. To sustain the enclave in the meantime, Russia is poised to build permanent military bases on the territory following an agreement expected to be struck on Tuesday. Advertisement More stories More from The Telegraph More stories Chelsea eye Lorenzo Pellegrini and Yéremy Pino as Mason Mount contract talks drag on By Mike McGrath 9 Oct 2022, 3:40pm Live Arsenal vs Liverpool live: Score and latest updates from the Premier League By Tamara Prenn 9 Oct 2022, 3:38pm Live West Ham vs Fulham live: Score and latest updates from the Premier League By Will Magee 9 Oct 2022, 3:37pm Max Verstappen secures title in confusing circumstances despite Japanese GP win By Tom Cary 9 Oct 2022, 3:27pm Live Ukraine war latest: Putin calls emergency security council meeting after Crimea bridge explosion By Arthur Scott-Geddes 9 Oct 2022, 3:23pm Ukrainian postal service still delivering under fire on the very edge of the front line By Campbell MacDiarmid 9 Oct 2022, 3:09pm Back to top Follow us on: Contact us About us Telegraph Extra Reader Prints Branded Content Syndication and Commissioning Guidelines Privacy Terms and Conditions Advertising Terms Fantasy Sport UK Voucher Codes Betting Offers Modern Slavery Tax Strategy Broadband and Mobile Deals © Telegraph Media Group Limited 2022 