 CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. Close Ad Feedback xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"? The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms More The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms Audio Live TV Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms Follow CNN Politics World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Olympics US Sports Climbing Motorsport Formula E Esports Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa 2 Degrees CNN Heroes All Features Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Biden calls Nord Stream pipeline leaks a ‘deliberate act of sabotage’ By Allie Malloy and Maegan Vazquez , CNN Updated 4:08 PM EDT, Fri September 30, 2022 Link Copied! Ad Feedback Video Ad Feedback Politics of the Day CNN Now playing 02:44 'Not going to be intimidated': Biden reacts to Putin's remarks CNN Now playing 03:59 'Come on, man': Carville pushes back on GOP commentator's reaction to Walker Getty Images Now playing 02:33 Warnock asked about Walker allegations. Hear his response AP Now playing 02:56 Democratic candidate has signaled support for removing police funding, despite ad claiming otherwise WASHINGTON, DC - MARCH 23: While being questioned by Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX), Supreme Court nominee Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson testifies during her confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee in the Hart Senate Office Building on Capitol Hill March 23, 2022 in Washington, DC. Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson, President Joe Biden's pick to replace retiring Justice Stephen Breyer on the U.S. Supreme Court, would become the first Black woman to serve on the Supreme Court if confirmed. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images) Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images North America/Getty Images Now playing 02:32 Listen to Ketanji Brown Jackson school the Court on US history Former football player and political candidate Herschel Walker interacts with former president of the United States Donald Trump prior to Game Four of the World Series between the Houston Astros and the Atlanta Braves Truist Park on October 30, 2021 in Atlanta, Georgia. Michael Zarrilli/Getty Images Now playing 05:15 Hear Donald Trump defend Herschel Walker over domestic violence allegations Hunter Biden walks to Marine One on the Ellipse outside the White House May 22, 2021, in Washington, DC. BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AFP/Getty Images Now playing 02:24 Reporter explains what Hunter Biden investigators are focused on Now playing 03:32 Utah Democrats may support Independent challenging Trump-backed senator CNN Now playing 03:01 Here's what's different about governors' races this year Sketch by Bill Hennessy Now playing 03:46 Here's what jurors saw during prosecutor's opening statements in Oath Keepers trial CNN Now playing 02:55 Here's what Oath Keeper leader's estranged wife is '100% positive' he will do at trial Now playing 02:12 Haberman asks Trump how he found out about the insurrection. Hear his reply Now playing 01:08 Louisiana candidate for Congress gives birth in new campaign ad Now playing 01:54 Sen. Scott asked about Trump's racist insult of McConnell's wife. Hear his response Now playing 01:46 Hear what Haberman asked Trump 'on a lark' while interviewing him for new book CNN Now playing 02:30 Hear why Trump is praising Ginni Thomas See More Videos CNN — President Joe Biden on Friday called the leaks in the Nord Stream pipelines a “deliberate act of sabotage” and accused Russia and President Vladimir Putin of “pumping out disinformation and lies,” though he did not directly accuse Moscow for the leaks. Biden’s strong words mark the first time he’s directly asserted that the leaks were a result of sabotage, pushing back on Russia’s narrative about the incident amid Moscow’s escalating efforts to assert its claim over Ukrainian territory. On Monday, leaks were discovered in the pipelines, prompting investigations by European authorities that determined powerful underwater explosions had occurred just before the pipelines burst in several places. Biden said that the United States is working with allies to “get to the bottom of exactly – precisely what happened” with the leaks and that he has already directed resources to help allies enhance protection of the pipelines, which funnel gas from Russia into the European Union. “Let me say this, it was a deliberate act of sabotage and now the Russians are pumping out disinformation and lies,” Biden said. MOSCOW, RUSSIA - OCTOBER 14: (---EDITORIAL USE ONLY â MANDATORY CREDIT - "KREMLIN PRESS OFFICE / HANDOUT" - NO MARKETING NO ADVERTISING CAMPAIGNS - DISTRIBUTED AS A SERVICE TO CLIENTS----) Russian President Vladimir Putin attends the bilateral trade and energy sector meeting at the leaders' level on developments in the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) in Moscow, Russia on October 14, 2021. (Photo by KREMLIN PRESS OFFICE/Anadolu Agency via Getty Images) Kremlin Press Office/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images Putin announces annexation of Ukrainian regions, pledging people there will be Russian 'forever' At “the appropriate moment when things calm down, we’re gonna send the divers down to find out exactly what happened,” he added. “We don’t know that yet.” Western nations have said leaks in Nord Stream 1 and 2, two Russian gas pipelines, are likely the result of sabotage. But up to this point, US officials had been largely circumspect compared to their European counterparts in drawing conclusions about the leaks. Putin on Friday claimed “Anglo-Saxons” were to blame for the explosions, claiming: “Well, for the Anglo-Saxons sanctions are no longer enough, they switched to sabotage. Unbelievable, but it is a fact.” Biden, however, insisted that what Putin is saying about the leaks is “not true.” And national security adviser Jake Sullivan said Friday that the US does not believe any NATO ally is behind the leaks. The pipelines were controversial long before Russia waged war on Ukraine, largely because of fears around European reliance on Russian energy. If Russia did deliberately cause the explosions , it would be effectively sabotaging its own pipelines: Russian state company Gazprom is the majority shareholder in Nord Stream 1 and the sole owner of Nord Stream 2. But officials familiar with the latest intelligence say that Moscow would likely view such a step as worth the price if it helped raise the costs of supporting Ukraine for Europe. US and western intelligence officials believe Putin is gambling that as electricity costs rise and winter approaches, European publics could turn against the Western strategy of isolating Russia economically. Sabotaging the pipelines could “show what Russia is capable of,” one US official previously told CNN. Allegations about the leaks come amid what the West has cast as Moscow’s most serious escalation in the war in Ukraine since Russia’s invasion began in February. Last week, Putin announced partial mobilization in Russia, calling up 300,000 reservists. And earlier Friday, Putin delivered a formal speech announcing that Russia is to annex nearly a fifth of Ukraine following so-called referendums, which have universally been dismissed as shams by Ukraine and Western countries. Biden on Friday responded to Putin’s earlier remarks about annexation, saying, “America is fully prepared with our NATO allies to defend every single inch of NATO territory. Every single inch. So, Mr. Putin, don’t misunderstand what I’m saying. Every inch.” Biden asserted that Western allies “are not going to be intimidated by Putin and his reckless words and threats. He’s not going to scare us or intimidate us. Putin’s actions are a sign he’s struggling.” “The sham referenda he carried out and … the sham routine that he put on this morning … well, the United States is never going to recognize this and quite frankly, the world’s not going to recognize it, either. He can’t seize his neighbor’s territory and get away with it. It’s as simple as that,” he continued. Earlier Friday, the US announced new sanctions in response to Putin’s annexation announcement. The measures include a combination of export controls, visa restrictions and asset freezes, as part of an effort to further clamp down on Russian supply chains – and the individuals directing the efforts – critical to maintaining the war effort. The United States, Biden said during his remarks, “is going to continue to stay the course” with Ukraine. “We’re going to continue to provide military equipment so that Ukraine can defend itself and its territory and its freedom, including additional resources that the Congress is going to give me today of $13 billion more dollars to help Ukrainians defend themselves and fight back,” he continued. This story has been updated with additional developments Friday. CNN’s Natasha Bertrand, Katie Bo Lillis and Uliana Pavlova contributed to this report. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Search Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Live TV Audio World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First US Elections Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Olympics US Sports Climbing Motorsport Formula E Esports Hockey Videos Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa 2 Degrees CNN Heroes All Features Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"? Audio Live TV Follow CNN Politics Log In My Account Settings Log Out Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2022 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. 