World Africa Americas Asia Australia More China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Audio Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Search Audio Edition U.S. International Arabic Español Edition U.S. International Arabic Español US Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food and Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Videos Live TV  Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Audio CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Coupons Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Follow CNN  Live Updates Russia's war in Ukraine By  Rhea Mogul  and Amy Woodyatt, CNN Updated     11:09 a.m. ET, October 9, 2022 What we're covering  Russian President Vladimir Putin has signed a decree strengthening the defenses of  the only bridge  connecting annexed Crimea to the Russian mainland after a huge blast early Saturday severely damaged its structure. Russian leaders said the blast, which killed three people, was caused by a truck blowing up on the road bridge. Ukrainian officials have publicly  celebrated the explosion , without directly claiming responsibility.  At least 12 people were killed and 87 others wounded after rockets struck the Ukrainian city of  Zaporizhzhia  on Saturday, according to officials. The last power line connecting the nearby Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant to Ukraine’s power grid was damaged and disconnected Saturday  due to shelling by Russian forces , according to Ukraine's nuclear operator.  5 Posts Sort by Latest Oldest 9 hr 33 min ago Rocket attack on Zaporizhzhia kills at least 17 people From CNN's Josh Pennington A rescue worker stands in the debris of a residential building heavily damaged by a Russian missile strike in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine on October 9. (Stringer/Reuters) At least 17 people were killed and 40 others wounded after rockets struck the Ukrainian city of Zaporizhzhia on Saturday, according to the city's Acting Mayor Anatoly Kurtev. The attack, which began around 7 p.m. local time, destroyed five houses and damaged apartment buildings and streets, Kurtev said Saturday on his official Telegram channel. Some context:  Zaporizhzhia is a major city in southern Ukraine, not far from the front line, and the site of a nuclear power plant that the international community is  watching warily . Part of the wider region is occupied by Russian forces.  Russian President Vladimir Putin signed measures this week to  annex four Ukrainian regions , including Zaporizhzhia, in violation of international law. 9 hr 41 min ago "Very hard, very tough fighting" around eastern city of Bakhmut, Zelensky says  From CNN's Mariya Knight Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky speaks during his nightly video message on Saturday, October 8.  (Office of President of Ukraine) Fierce battles are taking place around the strategic city of Bakhmut in the eastern Donetsk region, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in his nightly address on Saturday. "We are holding positions in Donbas, in particular in the Bakhmut direction, where now it is very, very hard, very tough fighting," Zelensky said.  “Today, I would like to once again mention our soldiers from the Kholodny Yar 93rd Separate Mechanized Brigade for their courage and sustained power in this direction.”  Zelensky also said one of the highest priorities for Ukraine right now is “to speed up the decision of our partners to provide Ukraine with modern and effective anti-aircraft systems in sufficient quantity.”  On Saturday, Germany announced more weapon deliveries for Ukraine, including the IRIS-T air defense system, and a total of 100 tanks from Greece and Slovakia. 18 hr 32 min ago Satellite images show aftermath of Crimea bridge explosion Satellite image of Crimea Bridge explosion aftermath.  (Maxar Technologies) Maxar satellite images captured the damage to the Kerch Strait bridge Saturday, shortly after an  explosion rocked  the only direct road and rail connection between annexed Crimea and mainland Russia. The blast caused parts of the bridge to collapse, though Russian transportation officials  restarted rail service  and allowed vehicles to use some undamaged portions of the roadway by Saturday evening. A close up view of damaged bridge and rail cars on fire Crimea bridge. (Maxar Technologies) 4 hr 29 min ago UN nuclear watchdog condemns renewed shelling that knocked Zaporizhzhia plant off power grid From CNN's Sharon Braithwaite International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Rafael Grossi holds a press conference during his visit to Kyiv, Ukraine, on October 6.  (Kyodo News/Getty Images) The UN's nuclear watchdog condemned new shelling near Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, which just disconnected the plant from Ukraine's power grid, according to its operator. The resumed shelling is "tremendously irresponsible," International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Rafael Grossi said Saturday in a  press release. The last power line connecting the plant to Ukraine’s power grid  was damaged and disconnected Saturday  due to attacks by Russian forces, according to the Ukrainian nuclear operator Energoatom. The plant is now relying on diesel generators. “The resumption of shelling, hitting the plant’s sole source of external power, is tremendously irresponsible. The Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant must be protected,” Grossi said on Saturday.  "All the plant’s safety systems continue to receive power and are operating normally, the IAEA experts were informed by senior Ukrainian operating staff at the site,” he added in the release. "Although the six reactors are in cold shutdown, they still require electricity for vital nuclear safety and security functions. The plant’s diesel generators each have sufficient fuel for at least ten days. ZNPP engineers have begun work to repair the damaged 750 kV power line," according to the release. Grossi stressed that the plant "must be protected” and added that he will "soon travel to the Russian Federation, and then return to Ukraine, to agree on a nuclear safety and security protection zone around the plant. This is an absolute and urgent imperative.” What Russian officials say:  The plant can be put back into operation, said Vladimir Rogov, who is a senior pro-Russian official in the regional Zaporizhzhia government.  "Now the nuclear power plant has been switched back to the emergency mode of operation. The last power line that connected it with the right bank, with the territories controlled by [Ukrainian President Volodymyr] Zelensky's regime, has been cut. For now, the nuclear power plant can only be powered by diesel generators, and this is an unusual means," Rogov said while speaking to the pro-Kremlin "Soloviev Live" show on Saturday.  "We have every possibility to restore the nuclear power plant and put it into operation," he added. 13 hr 44 min ago Analysis: Putin faces more grim choices after blast hits his prized Crimea bridge Analysis from CNN's Nick Paton Walsh A huge blast severely damaged the only bridge connecting annexed Crimea to the Russian mainland on October 8. At least three people were killed in the explosion, which caused parts of Europe's longest bridge to collapse, according to Russian officials. (Vera Katkova/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images) The  Crimean bridge explosion  accelerates the strategic choices Russian President Vladimir Putin must make about Russia’s occupation of southern Ukraine. This entire presence was already poorly supplied, managed and in retreat. Rickety ferry crossings in bad weather or highly dangerous air cargo flights may now be needed to bolster military shipments into Crimea and toward the frontlines.  Ukraine has been targeting Russia' aging transport dependencies — particularly its reliance on rail — with slow, patient accuracy. First  Izium , which led to the collapse around  Kharkiv . Then Lyman, which is leading to the erosion of Russia’s control of Donetsk and Luhansk. And now the Kerch Strait bridge, which had become so vital to everything that Russia is trying to hold on to in the south. Putin now faces a series of expedited and painful decisions, all of which will severely belie his continued poker-face of pride and bombast toward the gathering signs of slow defeat. To the west of the Dnieper river, his army in Kherson is besieged by fast-moving Ukrainian forces. Putin's troops are already in retreat, partially owing to the same poor resupply that will be accentuated by the Kerch blast. They are again cut off from this faltering supply line by another series of damaged or targeted bridges across the Dnieper. Over the past week, they have already fallen back over 500 square kilometers (about 193 square miles).  Can Moscow sustain this force over two damaged supply routes? A precarious presence has perhaps overnight become near-impossible.  The second point of decision relates to  Crimea . Putin now faces the difficult choice of fortifying it further with depleted forces who face resupply issues, or partially withdrawing his military to ensure their significant resources on the peninsula do not get cut off. Putin must choose between feeding his larger ambitions with a dwindling chance of success or consolidating forces around an objective he has a greater chance of achieving. One carries the risk of catastrophic collapse, for his entire brutal adventure into Ukraine — and quite possibly, his rule. The second leaves him with an immediate loss of face, but a stronger chance of sustaining the occupation of smaller parts of Ukraine. Read Nick Paton Walsh's complete analysis here. Search Audio US Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food and Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Videos Live TV  Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Audio CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Coupons Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN World Audio Follow CNN  Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility & CC Ad Choices About Us CNN Store Newsletters Transcripts License Footage CNN Newsource Sitemap ©    2022    Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Please enable JavaScript for a better experience.