World Africa Americas Asia Australia More China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Audio Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Search Audio Edition U.S. International Arabic Español Edition U.S. International Arabic Español US Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food and Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Videos Live TV  Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Audio CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Coupons Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Follow CNN  October 8, 2022 Russia-Ukraine news By Amy Woodyatt,  Adrienne Vogt  and Matt Meyer, CNN Updated     8:17 p.m. ET, October 8, 2022 What we covered here A huge blast severely damaged  the only bridge  connecting annexed Crimea to the Russian mainland, causing parts of Europe’s longest bridge to collapse. At least three people were  killed in the explosion , according to Russian officials. Russian officials say the explosion was caused by a truck blowing up on the road bridge. Ukrainian officials have publicly  celebrated the explosion , without directly acknowledging that Kyiv was responsible.  Meanwhile, a cargo train in Ilovaisk in the Russian-occupied Donetsk region  was hit by a “powerful explosion,"  an aide to Mariupol's mayor says. The last power line connecting the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant to Ukraine’s power grid was damaged and disconnected Saturday  due to shelling from Russian forces , according to Ukraine's nuclear operator. 22 Posts Sort by Latest Oldest 21 hr 19 min ago EU condemns Putin's attempted seizure of Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant after declaring annexation of regions From CNN's Sharon Braithwaite The Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in Ukraine, on September 11.  (Stringer/AFP/Getty Images) The European Union "condemns in the strongest possible terms" Russia's attempted seizure of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant and the declared  annexation of four Ukraine regions , the EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said Saturday. Russian President Vladimir Putin  signed a decree  that puts the plant under Russian state control and amends the country's constitution by admitting new regions into Russia. The EU "does not recognise and strongly condemns Russia’s illegal annexation of Ukraine’s Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhzhia and Kherson regions. Consequently, the decree on the seizure of the ZNPP is illegal, and legally null and void," Borrell said in a  statement . Borrell urged Russia to "fully withdraw its military forces and equipment and hand back control of the NPP to its rightful owner, Ukraine." The EU's top diplomat also stressed that a "reinforced" presence by the  UN's nuclear watchdog  at the site and "its unhindered access to the plant are urgently needed in the interest of the security of Europe as a whole."   The power plant  lost all external power sources  Saturday due to renewed shelling and is now relying on emergency diesel generators, the International Atomic Energy Agency and Ukraine's nuclear operator Energoatom said. 10:21 a.m. ET, October 8, 2022 Ukraine to issue stamps commemorating Crimean bridge explosion From CNN’s Xiaofei Xu and Olga Voitovych  The Ukrainian Postal Service will issue new stamps that feature the damaged Kerch Strait bridge, which connected Crimea to Russia, its CEO announced on Saturday. “I will not wish you a good day, because it is already wonderful. The Kerch bridge is done,” Ukrposhta head Igor Smelyansky said.  The stamp will feature two figures who resemble Hollywood stars Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet in their iconic pose from the 1997 film "Titanic."  There is also an envelope with an image of Crimea breaking handcuffs with Russia in the images shared by Smelyansky. The price of the stamp will be 18 Ukrainian hryvnia ($0.48) each, and Kyiv plans to print 7 million copies for circulation, according to Smelyansky. Some context:  Beyond being  the only bridge  connecting annexed Crimea to the Russian mainland, the structure had  major symbolic significance  for Russian President Vladimir Putin's objective to take over Ukraine and bind it to Russia forever. 21 hr 22 min ago UN nuclear watchdog condemns renewed shelling that knocked Zaporizhzhia plant off power grid From CNN's Sharon Braithwaite International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Rafael Grossi holds a press conference during his visit to Kyiv, Ukraine, on October 6.  (Kyodo News/Getty Images) The UN's nuclear watchdog condemned new shelling near Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, which just disconnected the plant from Ukraine's power grid, according to its operator. The resumed shelling is "tremendously irresponsible," International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Rafael Grossi said Saturday in a  press release. The last power line connecting the plant to Ukraine’s power grid  was damaged and disconnected Saturday  due to attacks by Russian forces, according to the Ukrainian nuclear operator Energoatom. The plant is now relying on diesel generators. “The resumption of shelling, hitting the plant’s sole source of external power, is tremendously irresponsible. The Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant must be protected,” Grossi said on Saturday.  "All the plant’s safety systems continue to receive power and are operating normally, the IAEA experts were informed by senior Ukrainian operating staff at the site,” he added in the release. "Although the six reactors are in cold shutdown, they still require electricity for vital nuclear safety and security functions. The plant’s diesel generators each have sufficient fuel for at least ten days. ZNPP engineers have begun work to repair the damaged 750 kV power line," according to the release. Grossi stressed that the plant "must be protected” and added that he will "soon travel to the Russian Federation, and then return to Ukraine, to agree on a nuclear safety and security protection zone around the plant. This is an absolute and urgent imperative.” What Russian officials say : The plant can be put back into operation, said Vladimir Rogov, who is a senior pro-Russian official in the regional Zaporizhzhia government.  "Now the nuclear power plant has been switched back to the emergency mode of operation. The last power line that connected it with the right bank, with the territories controlled by [Ukrainian President Volodymyr] Zelensky's regime, has been cut. For now, the nuclear power plant can only be powered by diesel generators, and this is an unusual means," Rogov said while speaking to the pro-Kremlin "Soloviev Live" show on Saturday.  "We have every possibility to restore the nuclear power plant and put it into operation," he added.  9:41 a.m. ET, October 8, 2022 Surveillance video captures the explosion that rocked Crimean bridge Surveillance video from cameras on the Kerch Strait bridge shows the moment a large explosion rocked the roadway, disabling  the only bridge  connecting annexed Crimea to the Russian mainland. CNN's Fred Pleitgen reports that top Russian officials have already blamed the attack on Ukraine, which has not formally taken credit for the blast — though government and military officials have posted  several gloating messages  online. In Kyiv today, Ukrainians stopped to pose for a selfie in front of a billboard depicting the burning bridge. 21 hr 30 min ago Analysis: What the Kerch Strait bridge explosion means for Putin and his war effort Analysis from Jill Dougherty Black smoke billows from a fire on the Kerch bridge on October 8.  (AFP/Getty Images) The explosion on Russia's bridge to Crimea not only strikes a blow against Russia's military effort in Ukraine, it's also a psychological blow to Moscow and a major propaganda victory for Ukraine.  Russia began constructing the enormous 19-kilometer (about 12-mile) bridge over the Kerch Strait, spending  an estimated $3.7 billion , after Moscow illegally  annexed Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula  in 2014. It was the physical expression of Russian President Vladimir Putin's objective to take over Ukraine and bind it to Russia forever. The day it opened, he led a triumphant convoy over the bridge, driving a truck festooned with flags.  Russia's propaganda industry went into overdrive, even producing  a romantic comedy about the bridge  called "The Crimean Bridge, Made with Love," a rom-com about two guys working on building the bridge pursuing the same cute archaeology student. The screenplay was written by Margarita Simonyan, the head of Russia's main international propaganda TV channel RT. The explosion on the Crimean bridge early Saturday was hardly extinguished before the trolling — a major weapon in this war — began.  The attack took place the day after Putin turned 70, and Ukraine's Secretary of the National Security and Defense Council Oleksiy Danilov published video of the bridge in flames, with a huge section of the roadway collapsing into the water, alongside a  parallel video of Marilyn Monroe  singing "Happy Birthday, Mister President." Others online compared the bridge attack to Ukraine's April  sinking of the Russian Navy's warship the Moskva . Putin's government scrambled to insist that the damage was under control and would be repaired quickly. The state news agency TASS avoided the word "attack," reporting that a team of 380 responders, along with 90 pieces of equipment, was dispatched to "eliminate the consequences of the emergency" on the bridge. The Russian Transport Ministry said the railway section of the bridge, vital for bring troops and equipment for the war effort, would be restored by Saturday evening. Russia's Investigative Committee immediately launched  a criminal investigation . Online, Ukraine was triumphant about striking such a key Russian military and symbolic objective. And Ukrainian presidential aide Mykhailo Podolyak warned there could be more attacks ahead in a tweet, saying "everything occupied by Russia must be expelled."  21 hr 33 min ago Russian defense minister appoints new commander for Ukraine operations, according to state media From Darya Tarasova and Eyad Turki Sergey Surovikin.  (Russian Defence Ministry/Zuma Wire) The Russian Defense Ministry has announced the appointment of a new commander for what it calls its "special military operation" in Ukraine, according to Russian state media. The ministry said that Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu has approved the appointment of Gen. Sergey Surovikin as commander of Russia's "Joint Grouping of Forces" in Ukraine.  Russian state news agency TASS said the ministry's spokesman, Igor Konashenkov, made the announcement Saturday. Who is Surovikin?  The appointment for Surovikin, who turns 55 on Oct. 11, is the latest promotion in a military career that began in 1983. He's served in several conflicts and faced sanctions by the European Union. Surovikin first saw service in Afghanistan before commanding a unit in the Second Chechen War. He has also served as head of the Main Operational Directorate of the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces. He commanded several motorized rifle divisions and was instrumental in Russia's operations in Syria, when Russian combat aircraft caused widespread devastation in rebel-held areas. In 2017, he was appointed commander in chief of the Russian Aerospace Forces and was promoted to be an Army general last year.  While in Syria, he was awarded the title of Hero of the Russian Federation. He was sanctioned by the European Union in February this year in his capacity as head of the Aerospace Forces during the Russian invasion of Ukraine. 9:41 a.m. ET, October 8, 2022 Russia to resupply troops in southern Ukraine by sea and land corridor following bridge explosion From CNN's Darya Tarasova Russian troops in southern Ukraine will be resupplied by sea and land corridor, following Saturday's explosion on the Kerch bridge, the country's Ministry of Defense said. Strategic importance:  The Russian military has used the bridge extensively to resupply its forces in Kherson and Zaporizhzhia. It's unclear how long the road and rail bridges across the Kerch Strait will be out of service. The Ministry said on its Telegram channel: "The provision of the Russian group of troops involved in the special military operation in the Nikolaev-Krivoy Rog and Zaporozhye [Ukrainian: Mykolaiv - Kryvyi Rih - Zaporizhzhia] operational directions is carried out continuously in full along the land corridor and partially by sea transport." Ukraine recaptures territory in south:  Kyiv is successfully pushing ahead in its campaign to retake parts of southern and eastern Ukraine that Russia captured in the initial weeks of the war. The Ukrainian  military has recaptured 2,400 square kilometers of territory  in Kherson region in the south of the country “since the beginning of the full-scale war,” a senior Ukrainian official said Friday. 9:52 a.m. ET, October 8, 2022 What we know about the blast on the Kerch bridge A helicopter drops water to extinguish fire on the Kerch bridge in Crimea on October 8.  (Stringer/Reuters) In a major blow for Russia, at least one explosion has severely damaged the Kerch bridge connecting the  annexed Crimean peninsula  with the  Russian  Federation. The explosion early Saturday caused parts of Europe’s longest bridge to collapse, according to images and video from the scene. The exact cause of the explosion is unclear. Russian officials said a fuel truck exploded, but two spans of the road crossing in the direction of Crimea appear to have collapsed. A subsequent fire engulfed a train of fuel trucks on a separate part of the bridge. Images of the Kerch bridge posted on social media appear to show a portion of the roadway of the vehicle and rail bridge had fallen into the waters below it. Flames could be seen burning from rail cars above.  Three dead:  Russia's Investigative Committee says that preliminary information indicates three people were killed in the explosion. Why is the bridge important?  The bridge spans the Kerch Strait, which connects the Black Sea to the Sea of Azov, on which sit key Ukrainian ports, including Mariupol. For Russia, the  bridge symbolizes  the physical “reunification” of Crimea with the Russian mainland. The bridge carries much of Crimea’s needs – such as fuel and goods – and has been used regularly to supply weapons and fuel to Russian forces. The aftermath:  Major transport links between mainland Russia and the annexed peninsula of Crimea — including buses and trains —  were suspended , following an explosion on Kerch bridge. Weather conditions in the Kerch Strait are hindering Russia’s plans to use ferries to reach Crimea from Krasnodar, according to Russian state media. What has Ukraine said?  Ukrainian officials have started responding to the fire without directly acknowledging that Ukraine was responsible for the explosion. Among the responses, the Navy of the Armed Forces of Ukraine posted on Facebook, “Air defense of the Russian Federation, are you sleeping?” alongside a video showing a section of the bridge’s road that had been completely destroyed.  In a brief post on its official Twitter account, the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense reacted to the explosion, saying: "The guided missile cruiser Moskva and the Kerch Bridge – two notorious symbols of Russian power in Ukrainian Crimea – have gone down. What’s next in line, Russkies?" What is Russia's response?  Russian President Vladimir Putin immediately ordered a “government commission” to examine the Kerch Bridge “emergency” in Crimea, Russian state media TASS reported, adding that the heads of Russia’s Ministry of Emergency Situations and the Ministry of Transport are now at the scene of the incident. Russian officials suggest that the explosion was caused by a truck blowing up on the road bridge. The spokeswoman for the Russian Investigative committee, Svetlana Petrenko, said the committee "has opened a criminal case about the incident at the Crimean Bridge. According to preliminary information, this morning a truck was blown up on the automobile part of the Crimean Bridge from the Taman Peninsula [the westbound lanes of the bridge], which led to the ignition of seven fuel tanks of a train travelling toward the Crimean Peninsula." "As a result, two car lanes of the bridge partially collapsed." The Committee also expanded on its earlier statement that a truck on the bridge had blown up. According to Russia's Investigative Committee, the owner of the truck is resident of the Krasnodar Krai, and investigative actions have been launched at his place of residence. The route of movement of the vehicle and the relevant documentation are being studied, the committee added. CNN is unable to verify the Russian explanation for the explosion. 8:26 a.m. ET, October 8, 2022 Three fuel tanks damaged in Donetsk shelling, Russian officials say From Olga Voitovych and Zayn Nabbi Fire has damaged three fuel tanks in Ilovaisk in the Russian-occupied Donetsk   region, according to a  statement  by the Russian Ministry of Emergency Situations, following reports by Ukrainian officials that a cargo train was hit by a “powerful explosion.”  The Russian Ministry of Emergency Situations posted photos and  video  on its Telegram account showing firefighters dousing the fire at the Ilovaisk railway station on Saturday, and said the fire was a result of shelling by “Ukrainian militants.”  What happened?  A cargo train in Ilovaisk in the Russian-occupied  Donetsk  region was hit by a “powerful explosion” Saturday morning local time, according to the adviser to the Mariupol Mayor Petro Andrushenko. “Not only Crimea. Not only fuel tanks. There is also a cargo train in Ilovaisk. Locals report a rather powerful explosion and subsequent detonation at night. The occupiers now have big problems with supplies from both sides,” Andrushenko said, referring to the explosion involving a tanker on the Kerch bridge that links Russia’s Krasnodar region with the Russian-annexed Crimean peninsula. Pro-Russian authorities in the self-declared Donetsk People's Republic confirmed the incident, releasing video Saturday showing the fire’s aftermath at a local railway station. It is unclear yet if there were casualties in the blast. Search Audio US Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food and Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Videos Live TV  Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Audio CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Coupons Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN World Audio Follow CNN  Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility & CC Ad Choices About Us CNN Store Newsletters Transcripts License Footage CNN Newsource Sitemap ©    2022    Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Please enable JavaScript for a better experience.