
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CNN values your feedback 
 
 
 
 
                                                        1. How relevant is this ad to you?
                                                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                2. Did you encounter any technical issues?
                                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                        Video player was slow to load content
                                                                         
 
 
 
                                                                        Video content never loaded
                                                                         
 
 
 
                                                                        Ad froze or did not finish loading
                                                                         
 
 
 
                                                                        Video content did not start after ad
                                                                         
 
 
 
                                                                        Audio on ad was too loud
                                                                         
 
 
 
                                                                        Other issues
                                                                         
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                        Ad never loaded
                                                                         
 
 
 
                                                                        Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading
                                                                         
 
 
 
                                                                        Content moved around while ad loaded
                                                                         
 
 
 
                                                                        Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously
                                                                         
 
 
 
                                                                        Other issues
                                                                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                        Cancel
                                                 
 
                                                        Submit
                                                 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thank You! 
 
                                        Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated.
                                 
 
                                        Close
                                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ad Feedback 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 World 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                  
                  Africa
                 
 
 
 
                  
                  Americas
                 
 
 
 
                  
                  Asia
                 
 
 
 
                  
                  Australia
                 
 
 
 
                  
                  China
                 
 
 
 
                  
                  Europe
                 
 
 
 
                  
                  India
                 
 
 
 
                  
                  Middle East
                 
 
 
 
                  
                  United Kingdom
                 
 
 
 
                  More
                 
 
 
                    Africa
                   
 
                    Americas
                   
 
                    Asia
                   
 
                    Australia
                   
 
                    China
                   
 
                    Europe
                   
 
                    India
                   
 
                    Middle East
                   
 
                    United Kingdom
                   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Audio
           
 
            Live TV
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Log In
       
 
 
 
      My Account 
 
 
 
 
 
          Settings
         
 
 
 
          Log Out
         
 
 
 
 
 Your CNN account 
 Log in to your CNN account 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Log In
       
 
 
 
      My Account 
 
 
 
 
 
          Settings
         
 
 
 
          Log Out
         
 
 
 
 
 Your CNN account 
 Log in to your CNN account 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Live TV
           
 
            Audio
           
 
 
 
 Edition 
 
 
                  US
                 
 
 
 
                  International
                 
 
 
 
                  Arabic
                 
 
 
 
                  Español
                 
 
 
 
 
                Edition 
 
 
 
 
 
                  US
                 
 
 
 
                  International
                 
 
 
 
                  Arabic
                 
 
 
 
                  Español
                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                  Africa
                 
 
 
 
                  Americas
                 
 
 
 
                  Asia
                 
 
 
 
                  Australia
                 
 
 
 
                  China
                 
 
 
 
                  Europe
                 
 
 
 
                  India
                 
 
 
 
                  Middle East
                 
 
 
 
                  United Kingdom
                 
 
 
 
 Follow CNN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        US
       
 
 
 
            Crime + Justice
           
 
 
 
            Energy + Environment
           
 
 
 
            Extreme Weather
           
 
 
 
            Space + Science
           
 
 
 
 
 
        World
       
 
 
 
            Africa
           
 
 
 
            Americas
           
 
 
 
            Asia
           
 
 
 
            Australia
           
 
 
 
            China
           
 
 
 
            Europe
           
 
 
 
            India
           
 
 
 
            Middle East
           
 
 
 
            United Kingdom
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Politics
       
 
 
 
            SCOTUS
           
 
 
 
            Congress
           
 
 
 
            Facts First
           
 
 
 
            2020 Election
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Business
       
 
 
 
            Markets
           
 
 
 
            Tech
           
 
 
 
            Media
           
 
 
 
            Success
           
 
 
 
            Perspectives
           
 
 
 
            Video
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Opinion
       
 
 
 
            Political Op-Eds
           
 
 
 
            Social Commentary
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Health
       
 
 
 
            Life, But Better
           
 
 
 
            Fitness
           
 
 
 
            Food
           
 
 
 
            Sleep
           
 
 
 
            Mindfulness
           
 
 
 
            Relationships
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Entertainment
       
 
 
 
            Stars
           
 
 
 
            Screen
           
 
 
 
            Binge
           
 
 
 
            Culture
           
 
 
 
            Media
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Tech
       
 
 
 
            Innovate
           
 
 
 
            Gadget
           
 
 
 
            Foreseeable Future
           
 
 
 
            Mission: Ahead
           
 
 
 
            Upstarts
           
 
 
 
            Work Transformed
           
 
 
 
            Innovative Cities
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Style
       
 
 
 
            Arts
           
 
 
 
            Design
           
 
 
 
            Fashion
           
 
 
 
            Architecture
           
 
 
 
            Luxury
           
 
 
 
            Beauty
           
 
 
 
            Video
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Travel
       
 
 
 
            Destinations
           
 
 
 
            Food & Drink
           
 
 
 
            Stay
           
 
 
 
            Videos
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Sports
       
 
 
 
            Pro Football
           
 
 
 
            College Football
           
 
 
 
            Basketball
           
 
 
 
            Baseball
           
 
 
 
            Soccer
           
 
 
 
            Olympics
           
 
 
 
            Hockey
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Videos
       
 
 
 
            Live TV
           
 
 
 
            Digital Studios
           
 
 
 
            CNN Films
           
 
 
 
            HLN
           
 
 
 
            TV Schedule
           
 
 
 
            TV Shows A-Z
           
 
 
 
            CNNVR
           
 
 
 
 
 
        CNN Underscored
       
 
 
 
            Electronics
           
 
 
 
            Fashion
           
 
 
 
            Beauty
           
 
 
 
            Health & Fitness
           
 
 
 
            Home
           
 
 
 
            Reviews
           
 
 
 
            Deals
           
 
 
 
            Money
           
 
 
 
            Gifts
           
 
 
 
            Travel
           
 
 
 
            Outdoors
           
 
 
 
            Pets
           
 
 
 
            CNN Store
           
 
 
 
            Coupons
           
 
 
 
 
 
        More
       
 
 
 
            Photos
           
 
 
 
            Longform
           
 
 
 
            Investigations
           
 
 
 
            CNN Profiles
           
 
 
 
            CNN Leadership
           
 
 
 
            CNN Newsletters
           
 
 
 
            Work for CNN
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 Live Updates 
 
 
      October 5, 2022 Russia-Ukraine news
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
			By  Rhea Mogul ,  Sana Noor Haq ,  Hannah Strange ,  Aditi Sangal ,  Adrienne Vogt ,  Maureen Chowdhury  and  Mike Hayes , CNN
		 
 
 
  Updated
        2:24 AM EDT, Thu October 6, 2022
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Video Ad Feedback 
 
 
 
 CNN team meets relieved Ukrainians in newly liberated town 
 03:42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What we covered 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Kyiv’s forces continue  to press ahead  with territorial gains in  the south  and  east  of Ukraine, including in  regions Russia claims it is annexing . 
 Social media images  from Wednesday  showed Ukrainian troops in at least one village in the strategic eastern Luhansk region after crossing neighboring Donetsk. It marks the first time Ukraine’s forces advanced into Luhansk since the conflict began. 
 Moscow’s losses come as Russian President Vladimir Putin  signed into law  measures that claim to annex four Ukrainian regions into the Russian Federation, in violation of international law. The Kremlin  declined to clarify the borders  of the territories it is annexing, saying there are certain parts “still to be returned.” 
 The car bombing  that killed Darya Dugina , the daughter of prominent Russian political figure Alexander Dugin, was likely authorized by elements within the Ukrainian government,  sources briefed on the intelligence told CNN . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All 
 Catch Up 
 Counteroffensive 
 
 
 37 Posts 
 Sort By 
 
 Latest 
 Oldest 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Our live coverage of  Russia’s war in Ukraine has moved here. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 US may offer to analyze underwater audio recordings to aid Nord Stream pipeline sabotage probes 
 
            From CNN's Kylie Atwood and Sean Lyngaas
         
 
 
 
 
      The US is considering offering to use its  most advanced underwater sound reading capabilities to analyze audio recordings  from around the time of the Nord Stream gas pipelines’ apparent sabotage, according to two sources familiar with the matter.
   
 
      The US Navy’s processing of the sonar signatures — the term for the unique underwater sounds — provided by Sweden and Denmark could boost the investigations by providing a more detailed picture of what was in the area at the time of the pipeline explosions and what caused them, sources said. While many countries have the capability to process underwater sounds, the US has the most advanced system, sources said.
   
 
      The processing of the underwater sound is viewed as a key piece of the investigation in addition to what underwater investigators find, sources said. Officials have said satellite images from the days before the leaks are unlikely to prove helpful because it was cloudy.  
   
 
      But the degree to which the US assistance in processing the underwater recordings could be helpful will depend on the quality of the recordings. The quality of any recordings that the Swedes and Danes have is unclear, sources said. 
   
 
      Each type of underwater machinery like submarines, torpedoes and vessel engines makes a unique sound that is called a “sonar signature,” and the US has an extensive library of these sounds.
   
 
      A Navy spokesperson would not confirm the US is offering to analyze the sonar recordings but said the Navy is ready to help with the investigations. 
   
 
       “We are aware of reports concerning leaks to the Nord Stream pipelines. We stand ready to provide support and assistance in close coordination with our allies and partners, if needed,” Capt. Tamara Lawrence said.
   
 
      The Swedish National Seismic Network (SNSN) said it had detected the explosions and experts said that the SNSN could share recordings with the US for processing, but seismic recordings are not the same as high-quality sonar recordings. 
   
 
	“What they are looking for is known signatures of adversaries class of ships or known signatures associated with an act like opening a torpedo door. The goal is to determine what caused this. The quality of the data and the kind of historical data in the database will determine to what degree they can accurately attribute this event using sonar signatures,” explained Mark Montgomery, the senior director of the Center on Cyber and Technology Innovation at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies.
 
 
      The US has helped to analyze underwater recordings from the Swedes in the past, experts said.
   
 
      These conversations about providing that assistance now come as the US Defense Department is doing “prudent planning” to see what assets, equipment and technical expertise the US has available to assist Baltic nations with the investigations, CNN reported last week.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Russian-speaking hackers knock US state government websites offline 
 
            From Sean Lyngaas
         
 
 
 
 
      Russian-speaking hackers on Wednesday claimed responsibility for knocking offline state government websites in Colorado, Kentucky and Mississippi, among other states — the latest example of apparent politically motivated hacking following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.
   
 
      The Kentucky Board of Elections’ website, which posts information on how to register to vote, was also temporarily offline on Wednesday, but it was not immediately unclear what caused that outage. The board of elections’ website is also managed by the Kentucky government, though the hackers did not specifically list the board as a target.
   
 
      The websites in Colorado, Kentucky and Mississippi were sporadically available Wednesday morning and afternoon as administrators appeared to try to bring them online.
   
 
      It’s an example of the type of digital disruption or distraction that US officials and election officials are preparing for ahead of the November midterm elections. Websites like that of the Kentucky Board of Elections are not directly involved in the casting or counting of votes, but they can provide useful information for voters.
   
 
      The hacking group claiming responsibility for Wednesday’s website outage is known as Killnet and stepped up its activity after Russia’s February invasion of Ukraine to target organizations in NATO countries. They are a loose band of so-called “hacktivists” — politically motivated hackers who support the Kremlin but whose ties to that government are unknown.
   
 
 Some context:  Killnet thrives off of public attention and bravado, and cybersecurity experts have to strike a balance between being mindful of Killnet’s online antics and not hyping a low-level threat.
   
 
      “We do not want to build up this group or convey a false sense of doom to scare people or give Killnet unwanted publicity,” Jason Passwaters, chief operating officer of security firm Intel 471, previously told CNN. “This group is capable of causing disruptions, but it’s up to organizations to understand what kind of risk Killnet actually poses to their operations.”
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Zelensky says more settlements were liberated in the Kherson region of southern Ukraine 
 
            From CNN's Josh Pennington and Julia Kesaieva
         
 
 
 
 
      President Volodymyr Zelensky said Wednesday that more settlements in the south of Ukraine have been liberated amid a Ukrainian counter-offensive in the Kherson region.
   
 
      The communities of Novovoskrensenske, Novohryhorivka and Petropavlivka had been recaptured, he said in his daily address, suggesting that Ukrainian forces are making progress through the largely rural hinterland of Kherson. 
   
 
	The three settlements “were liberated from the pseudo-referendum and [subsequently] stabilized,” he said.
 
 
      However, Ukrainian forces remain some distance from Kherson’s capital and other strategically important areas.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Russia will not supply oil to countries that introduce price caps, deputy prime minister says  
 
            From CNN's Uliana Pavlova and Tim Lister
         
 
 
 
 
      Russian Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak said on Wednesday that Russia will halt oil supplies to those countries that plan to introduce a price ceiling on Russian oil.
   
 
	Novak was quoted by Russian state media RIA Novosti as saying: “We believe that it is not advisable for us to provide supplies with the introduction of such an instrument to those consumers who will benefit from price caps. We will continue to supply only to those who provide market-based pricing mechanisms.”
 
 
      “Our budget is formed at a price of $70 [per barrel], and we believe that this is a comfortable price, which today can be taken as a basis,” he said. 
   
 
 More context:  Both the G7 and the European Union have announced plans to penalize Russia for its invasion of Ukraine by setting a price cap for imports of Russian oil. The G7 plan calls on participating countries to deny insurance, finance and other assistance to Russian oil cargoes above a certain price. That price is yet to be determined. 
   
 
      The Czech government, which currently holds the EU rotating presidency, said Wednesday that a political agreement on the EU’s eighth sanctions package against Moscow had been reached.
   
 
      “The package contains: Prohibition of maritime transport of Russian oil to third countries above the oil price cap and a ban on related services,” the Czech government said on Twitter.
   
 
      Novak also said that Russia is ready to supply gas through the undamaged branch of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sources: US believes elements within Ukraine's government authorized assassination of daughter of Putin ally 
 
            From CNN's Natasha Bertrand and Katie Bo Lillis
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Participants stand next to a coffin during a memorial service for Darya Dugina in Moscow on August 23. 
 Maxim Shemetov/Reuters 
 
 
 
      The US intelligence community believes that the car bombing  that killed Darya Dugina , the daughter of prominent Russian political figure Alexander Dugin, was authorized by elements within the Ukrainian government,  sources briefed on the intelligence told CNN .
   
 
      The US was not aware of the plan beforehand, according to the sources, and it is still unclear who exactly the US believes signed off on the assassination. It is also not clear whether the US intelligence community believes that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky was aware of the plot or authorized it.
   
 
      But the intelligence finding, first reported by the New York Times, would seem to corroborate elements of the Russian authorities’ findings that the car bombing was “pre-planned.” Russia had accused Ukrainian nationals of being responsible for the attack, which Ukraine had strongly denied in the aftermath of the explosion.
   
 
      Ukrainian government officials did not immediately respond to CNN’s requests for comment.
   
 
      The NSC, CIA and State Department declined to comment.
   
 
      US intelligence officials believe that Dugina was driving her father’s car on the night she was killed, and that her father was the actual target of the operation, one of the sources said. Dugin is a Russian ultranationalist and philosopher who has been a fierce proponent of Russia’s war in Ukraine. A friend of Dugina also told the Russian  news outlet TASS shortly after the explosion that the car she was driving was her father’s.
   
 
      To date, Ukrainian strikes inside Russia have largely been limited to attacks on fuel depots and military bases in cities along the Russia-Ukraine border, like Belgorod. But the US does not have good visibility into all of Ukraine’s planned strikes, sources told CNN.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It's nighttime in Kyiv. Catch up on the latest developments in the war and Ukraine's counteroffensive  
 
            From CNN staff 
         
 
 
 
 
      Despite Russian President Vladimir Putin signing into law a  measure to annex four Ukrainian regions  into the Russian Federation, Kyiv’s forces continue to push ahead with territorial gains in the south and east of Ukraine. 
   
 
      The chief of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said he is  traveling to Kyiv  after Putin announced the seizure of Ukraine’s largest nuclear power plant located in Zaporizhzhia. The seizure was included  in a decree signed  by Putin on Wednesday.  
   
 
      Here are more of the latest developments in Russia’s war in Ukraine: 
   
 
 Ukrainian forces advance into Luhansk region for first time since conflict began, social media images show:  Social media images from Wednesday showed Ukrainian troops in at least one village in the eastern Luhansk area, after crossing from the neighboring Donetsk region. One photograph showed a Ukrainian unit kneeling and standing around a road sign at the village of Hrekivka, just inside Luhansk region. It is the first time since the beginning of the conflict in March that Ukrainian troops have advanced into Luhansk.   
 Ukrainian military officials say Russians are evacuating wounded in Kherson and Luhansk:  The Ukrainian military said that as its forces advance in the southern region of Kherson, Russian units have suffered losses and are trying to evacuate their wounded and equipment to the nearest crossings across the Dnipro River. “In particular, the enemy moved up to 150 wounded servicemen and about 50 units of damaged military equipment to Vesele settlement, near Kakhovka hydroelectric power station,” the General Staff said. There is a heavily damaged bridge near the Kakhovka hydroelectric plant located in Nova Kakhovka. Ukrainian forces have been making progress down the west bank of the Dnipro. Meanwhile in the northeast of the country, the Ukrainian military said the Russians have been taking heavy casualties in that area too, where Ukrainian forces are consolidating gains along the borders of Donetsk and Luhansk regions. 
 Zelensky discusses plans for “further liberation of Ukrainian territories” with military and security staff:  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Wednesday met with his top military and security staff, and considered plans for “further liberation of Ukrainian territories,” according to the president’s office. “Those present heard information from the intelligence, the headquarters of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the commanders of the operational directions about the situation at the front and the latest actions of the enemy,” the readout of the meeting read. “They also discussed the issue of stabilizing the situation in the newly de-occupied areas. Plans regarding further liberation of Ukrainian territories were also considered.”  
 Russia declines to clarify the borders of territories it claims to have annexed:  Meanwhile, Moscow has refrained from giving a concrete answer when asked how the borders of the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions should be defined under the Kremlin’s newly-signed claimed annexations, which violate international law. Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said “certain territories there are still to be returned,” following rapid advances by Ukrainian forces in the south. When asked by CNN how he would interpret the language of the laws signed by Putin earlier Wednesday, which refers to the borders of the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions as “the territory which existed on the day of its adoption in the Russian Federation,” Peskov said: “I will leave this question unanswered.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ukrainian military officials say Russians are evacuating wounded in Kherson and Luhansk 
 
            From CNN's Tim Lister
         
 
 
 
 
      The Ukrainian military said that as its forces advance in the southern region of Kherson, Russian units have suffered losses and are trying to evacuate their wounded and equipment to the nearest crossings across the Dnipro River. 
   
 
	“In particular, the enemy moved up to 150 wounded servicemen and about 50 units of damaged military equipment to Vesele settlement, near Kakhovka hydroelectric power station,” the General Staff said.
 
 
      There is a heavily damaged bridge near the Kakhovka hydroelectric plant located in Nova Kakhovka. Ukrainian forces have been making progress down the west bank of the Dnipro. 
   
 
 Meanwhile in the northeast of the country,  the Ukrainian military said the Russians have been taking heavy casualties in that area too, where Ukrainian forces are consolidating gains along the borders of Donetsk and Luhansk regions.
   
 
      “Due to the large number of wounded and overload of local medical institutions, the enemy has equipped and is using a school as a military hospital. According to preliminary information, there are up to 200 wounded servicemen there,” the General Staff said.
   
 
      It also claimed that Russia was recruiting more men from penal colonies. “The command of the Russian occupation continues to recruit prisoners to replenish the losses of personnel. According to preliminary information, more than 650 prisoners from high-security penal colonies of Stavropol Krai agreed to take part in hostilities on the territory of Ukraine,” it said. 
   
 
      The General Staff said that the Ukrainian air force had conducted more than 10 strikes against Russian concentration of weapons. “In addition, our air defense units shot down seven enemy UAVs. Six of them were Iranian-made.”
   
 
      The General Staff said Russian rocket attacks on a wide range of settlements had continued — in Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk and Zaporizhzhia. But all enemy assaults had been repelled, the General Staff added. 
   
 
      In the occupied city of Enerhodar, “the occupiers continue to exert moral and psychological pressure on the employees of the Zaporizhzhia NPP [nuclear plant],” it said. “Employees are forced to obtain Russian passports and conclude employment contracts with the State Atomic Energy Corporation “Rosatom” under threat.”
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 UN nuclear watchdog chief will travel to Kyiv after Putin announces seizure of Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant 
 
            From CNN's Jorge Engels, previous reporting from Uliana Pavlova and Olga Voitovych
         
 
 
 
 
      The chief of the United Nations’ nuclear watchdog agency will head urgently to Kyiv on Wednesday after Russian President Vladimir Putin signed a decree to incorporate Ukraine’s largest nuclear power plant, located in Zaporizhzhia, as Russian federal property.
   
 
	“On our way to Kyiv for important meetings. The need for a Nuclear Safety and Security Protection Zone (NSSPZ) around #Zaporizhzhya Nuclear Power Plant is now more urgent than ever,” Rafael Grossi, director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA),  tweeted . 
 
 
      Russian forces have controlled Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant for months, and the area has seen heavy fighting in recent weeks.
   
 
      Earlier on Wednesday, Putin  signed a decree  that puts the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power under Russian state control — and amends the country’s constitution by admitting new regions into the Russian federation.
   
 
 Remember:  The  annexation of Zaporizhzhia and three other regions  has been widely condemned by the international community as “a sham”, and the vast majority of governments have described it as against international law.
   
 
      The confrontation over the status of the plant, and shelling that has damaged some installations there, has led the IAEA to intervene.
   
 
 See the IAEA chief’s tweet:  
 
 
 
 On our way to Kyiv for important meetings. The need for a Nuclear Safety and Security Protection Zone (NSSPZ) around  #Zaporizhzhya  Nuclear Power Plant is now more urgent than ever.  pic.twitter.com/XFetpJ65ai — Rafael MarianoGrossi (@rafaelmgrossi)  October 5, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International Boxing Association reverses decision to ban Russian and Belarussian competitors  
 
            From CNN's Jacob Lev
         
 
 
 
 
      The International Boxing Association (IBA) reversed the ban on Russian and Belarussian boxers from competition, the governing body announced on Wednesday.
   
 
      The IBA board of directors voted to allow boxers from Russia and Belarus to return to competition and perform under their flags. The national anthems will be played if the boxer were to win a gold medal.
   
 
	“The IBA strongly believes that politics shouldn’t have any influence on sports,” the IBA said  in a statement  Wednesday. “Hence, all athletes should be given equal conditions. The IBA added that it remained “politically neutral and independent.” 
 
 
      The association added, “IBA calls for peace and remains a peacemaker in any conflicts. Moreover, the IBA has obligation to ensure equal treatment towards the athletes and competition officials, regardless of their nationality and residence.” 
   
 
      Technical officials of Russia and Belarus will also be included in the return to competition.
   
 
      Boxers, judges and officials from both countries have been banned from IBA international competition since March following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Putin signs decree taking Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant into Russian federal ownership 
 
            From CNN's Uliana Pavlova and Olga Voitovych
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant is seen in Enerhodar on September 11. 
 (AFP/Getty Images) 
 
 
 
      Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday signed a decree that puts the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in Ukraine under Russian state control — and amends the country’s constitution by admitting new regions into the Russian Federation.
   
 
      Putin also instructed the cabinet to determine how to regulate and operate the Zaporizhzhia plant — which has been under Russian military control since March — through 2028.
   
 
 Remember:  The annexation of Zaporizhzhia and three other regions has been widely condemned by the international community as “a sham”, and the vast majority of governments have described it as against international law.
   
 
      The confrontation over the status of the plant, and shelling that has damaged some installations there, has led the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to intervene.
   
 
      Just as Putin was signing the decree, the Ukrainian state nuclear operator, Energoatom, said its president would assume the duties of the plant’s director general. 
   
 
      Petro Kotin, Energoatom president, said in a video address to the employees of the plant: “In accordance with the current legislation, approval and regulatory documents, I have decided to take up the duties of the director general of the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant.”
   
 
      He said the administration of the plant would be transferred directly to Kyiv following the detention by Russian officials of the plant’s general director, Ihor Murashov. The official also noted that operational issues at the plant would be resolved by the technical staff by agreement with the central office of the company.
   
 
	“Undoubtedly, our work, our destiny, our homes and our future are with Ukraine, as always. We will continue to work in accordance with Ukrainian legislation, in the Ukrainian energy system, in Energoatom. Don’t doubt it!” Kotin noted.
 
 
 Some more context:  On Tuesday, the IAEA said that Murashov will not continue his duties at the nuclear power plant following his release from Russian detention.
   
 
      The nuclear plant, with six reactors, is the largest in Europe. It continues to be run by Ukrainian technicians, but the forcible annexation of Zaporizhzhia means that according to Russian law it is now on Russian territory.  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ukrainian forces advance into Luhansk region for first time since conflict began, social media images show 
 
            From CNN's Tim Lister
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ukrainian soldiers stand at the entrance to the village of Hrekivka, inside Luhansk region. 
 (Obtained by CNN) 
 
 
 
      Social media images from Wednesday showed Ukrainian troops in at least one village in the eastern Luhansk area, after crossing from the neighboring Donetsk region.
   
 
      One photograph showed a Ukrainian unit kneeling and standing around a road sign at the village of Hrekivka, just inside Luhansk region.
   
 
	It is the first time since the beginning of the conflict in March that Ukrainian troops have advanced into Luhansk.  
 
 
 More on Ukraine’s advances : All of Luhansk region is claimed as Russian territory by the Kremlin,  following its forcible annexation . But in recent days Ukrainian forces have been approaching the region from several directions, building on their successful offenses in Kharkiv and Donetsk. 
   
 
      Social media video also showed Ukrainian troops in the town of Terny in Donetsk region, about 20 kilometers (about 12 miles) from the town of Kreminna in Luhansk, which analysts believe is a critical defensive line for the Russians now that they have lost ground in both Donetsk and Kharkiv regions.
   
 
      The Ukrainian advances in the northeast come within days of the  so-called referendums  held by pro-Russian local authorities that led to the annexation by Moscow of Donetsk and Luhansk as well as much of Zaporizhzhia and Kherson. Since the annexation measures were approved by Russian President Vladimir Putin last Friday, Russian forces have lost hundreds of square kilometers of territory in Donetsk and Kherson. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Putin says he was "pleasantly surprised" by results of referendums as Western leaders dismiss them as a "sham" 
 
            From CNN's Uliana Pavlova
         
 
 
 
 
      Russian President Vladimir Putin said he was pleased and surprised by the results of the so-called referendums in four regions of Ukraine that have since been annexed by Russia. 
   
 
      “The results of the referendums, frankly speaking, not only pleased me, but also surprised me — after all, people lived in such difficult conditions, and still continue to live,” Putin said during a televised meeting with Russian teachers on Wednesday. “This result, I assure you, I think the election observers know this as well, there was no desire to correct something, clean something up, add something.”
   
 
 Remember:  The votes are illegal under international law and have been  universally dismissed as “a sham”  by Ukraine and Western nations. In all four regions that have subsequently been annexed by Russia, the declared vote in favor of joining the Russian Federation was more than 90%. The “votes” – and the results that Russia and its local allies have claimed – are an important step in Russia’s faltering effort to seize control in Ukraine.
   
 
      Addressing a teacher from the Donbas region, Putin said that these regions will be stabilized and developed while “helping strengthen the country as a whole.”
   
 
      “We always, despite the tragedy of today, have had great respect for the Ukrainian people and Ukrainian culture, and the Ukrainian language, literature, and so on,” Putin said. “We have never allowed the sort of things that Ukraine allows against Russian culture or the Russian language.”
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Here's a look at the state of control in Ukraine right now 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Kyiv’s forces continue to press forward with territorial gains in  the south  and  east  of the country, including in the regions  Russia claims it is annexing .
   
 
 Here’s how the state of control looks right now: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Russia lacks manpower to stop Ukrainian advance in Luhansk, says correspondent embedded with Russian military 
 
            From CNN’s Mick Krever in London
         
 
 
 
 
      The Russian military lacks the manpower necessary to hold off a further Ukrainian advance into the Luhansk region, a correspondent embedded with the Russian military in the occupied city of Svatove said on Tuesday evening.
   
 
      “The Russian troops do not have enough manpower to stop the enemy attacks,” Alexander Kots, for Russian pro-government tabloid Komsomolskaya Pravda  said in a video  posted to Telegram. “The recent Russian losses are directly connected to that. It’s a very difficult period of time on the front line at the moment.”
   
 
      He said that “we expect a serious fighting here very soon,” and that “it remains to be seen if it could stop the enemy advances.”
   
 
      Kots confirmed that Russian forces were trying to fortify their defense at the line connecting the occupied cities of Kreminna and Svatova. Yuriy Podolyaka, a pro-Russian military blogger said on Monday that Russian troops had withdrawn to the Zherebets River, which runs just west of Kreminna and Svatova.
   
 
      “The enemy is concentrating its forces to attack Svatove from two directions,” Kots said on Tuesday. “The enemy artillery is reaching and working over the Kreminna-Svatove road and its sabotage and reconnaissance groups can operate there. This area is being fortified by the Russian troops who dig trenches and place land mines.”
   
 
      He said that Ukrainian forces are “on the high and enjoying a numeric advantage.”
   
 
      “They don’t have problems with the intelligence data or high precision weapons which they are constantly using. We are just waiting for our reserves to become fighting fit and join the battle.”
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Russia declines to clarify the borders of territories it claims to have annexed  
 
            From CNN's Anna Chernova and Radina Gigova
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov attends the Victory Day military parade at Red Square in central Moscow, Russia on May 9. 
 (Kirill Kudryavtsev/AFP/Getty Images) 
 
 
 
      Moscow refrained from giving a concrete answer when asked how the borders of the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions should be defined under the Kremlin’s newly-signed claimed illegal annexations. 
   
 
      Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said “certain territories there are still to be returned,” following rapid advances by Ukrainian forces in the south. 
   
 
      When asked by CNN how he would interpret the language of the laws signed by Putin earlier Wednesday, which refers to the borders of the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions as “the territory which existed on the day of its adoption in the Russian Federation,” Peskov said: “I will leave this question unanswered.”
   
 
      When asked by CNN if he can provide any comment at all for better understanding, Peskov said: “You should read the decree, there is a legal wording there. On the whole, of course, we are talking about the territory in which the military-civilian administration operated at the time of its adoption (as part of the Russian Federation).”
   
 
      When asked again by CNN if this should to be read as the territory captured by Russian troops as of September 30, Peskov said: “(You should stick to) what is written in the decree. But I repeat once again: Certain territories there are still to be returned, and we continue to consult with those populations that will express a desire to live with Russia.”
   
 
      Asked one more time by CNN whether any additional laws would be required to include those areas into the Russian Federation, or whether they would automatically be included as part of the regions under the signed laws, if and when they are “returned,” Peskov said: “For now, I have nothing to add.”
   
 
      Russian President Vladimir Putin  signed into law  the documents on the illegal annexation of four Ukrainian regions on Wednesday, completing the last step of the annexation process, based on the Russian legal system. The annexation is illegal under international law. 
   
 
      Putin’s move comes as Ukrainian forces continue to  press forward  with territorial gains in the south and east, including in the regions Russia  claims it is annexing .
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 "De-occupation of Luhansk has begun," says regional Ukrainian leader 
 
            From Olga Voitovych in Kyiv
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A man walks past a residential building in Lysychansk, the city controlled by pro-Russian troops in the Luhansk region, Ukraine, on September 21. 
 (Alexander Ermochenko/Reuters) 
 
 
 
      The “de-occupation” of Ukraine’s eastern Luhansk region “has begun,” according to a regional official. 
   
 
      “Several settlements have already been liberated from the Russian army, from the Russian occupiers,” Serhiy Hayday, head of the Luhansk region’s Ukrainian military administration, said on national television Wednesday. 
   
 
      “All those soldiers realize that a counterattack is just inevitable, they are being defeated.”
   
 
      After regaining the key eastern city of Lyman, in the Donetsk region, over the weekend, Ukrainian forces have continued their  counteroffensive , pushing into the Luhansk region, pro-Russian officials and propagandists said on Monday. 
   
 
      Russia controls nearly all of Ukraine’s Luhansk region. Ukrainian forces  liberated  the Luhansk village of Bilohorivka at the end of September.
   
 
      Hayday urged residents who fled their homes earlier this year not to try to return. 
   
 
      “I’d like to appeal to everyone,” he said. “First, do not get ahead of yourselves, do not rush to bring stuff and come back. We will let you know when and where exactly you can return. Because it is necessary that the Armed Forces of Ukraine move the front line further, and only then it will be possible to enter certain settlements. The territory must be demined.”
   
 
      He also urged residents in occupied areas of Luhansk to try to evacuate away from the front line, or to stay in shelters.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Zelensky discusses plans for "further liberation of Ukrainian territories" with military and security staff 
 
            From Mick Krever in London
         
 
 
 
 
      Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Wednesday met with his top military and security staff, and considered plans for “further liberation of Ukrainian territories,” according to the president’s office. 
   
 
      “Those present heard information from the intelligence, the headquarters of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the commanders of the operational directions about the situation at the front and the latest actions of the enemy,” the readout of the meeting read.
   
 
      “They also discussed the issue of stabilizing the situation in the newly de-occupied areas. Plans regarding further liberation of Ukrainian territories were also considered.”
   
 
      The participants also “focused on the issue of countering new types of weapons used by the Russian army.”
   
 
      Among those present were Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov, Commander-in-Chief Valerii Zaluzhny, and Head of the Main Intelligence Directorate Kyrylo Budanov.
   
 
      Ukrainian forces are  making gains  in the east as well as in the south, where they are piercing through Moscow’s defenses in the Kherson region.
   
 
      Earlier Wednesday, Zelensky said that in the Kherson region the towns of Liubymivka, Khreshchenivka, Zolota Balka, Biliaiivka, Ukraiinka, Velyka, Mala Oleksandrivka and Davydiv Brid had all been liberated, “and this is not a complete list.”
   
 
      Kherson is one of the four regions in Ukraine that Russia has announced it is  annexing , in violation of international law.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It's 2 p.m. in Kyiv. Here's what you need to know 
 
            From CNN staff
         
 
 
 
 
      Russian President Vladimir Putin has signed into law measures that claim to annex four Ukrainian regions, in violation of international law.  
   
 
      Ukrainian forces have gained ground in the south, pushing even further toward the Russian-occupied city of Kherson.
   
 
      Here are the latest developments:
   
 
 Kremlin signs illegal annexations:  Putin  signed into law  measures that claim to illegally annex the four Ukrainian regions of Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhzhia and Kherson into the Russian Federation. He also designated  “acting heads”  of four illegally annexed Ukrainian regions, according to Russian state news agency TASS. The four newly appointed leaders will govern until official heads for the regions are elected in accordance with Russian law, TASS reported Wednesday.  
 Kyiv sweeps the south:  The Ukrainian military  has liberated  multiple towns in the southern Kherson region as part of “the ongoing defensive operation,” according to President Volodymyr Zelensky. Meanwhile, Russian troops  are leaving mines  in southern Ukrainian villages as they retreat along the western bank of the Dnieper River, the Ukrainian military said on Wednesday. 
 Western allies bolster support for Ukraine:  US President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris  spoke with  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky Tuesday and said the US “will never recognize Russia’s annexations.” European Union member states have also agreed on a fresh round of sanctions against Russia, the Czech Presidency of the EU Council announced Wednesday. The EU’s  eighth package  of sanctions against Russia – which was proposed by the European Commission last week – will include an oil price cap, among other measures. 
 Zelensky proposes “special tribunal” for Russian leaders:  Zelensky on Wednesday called for the creation of a “special tribunal” to pursue Russian political and military leaders for their role in the invasion of Ukraine. “We must bring to justice those whose decisions started all this,”  he told a conference in Paris .  
 Miss Crimea fined for singing Ukrainian song:  The winner of Miss Crimea 2022,  Olga Valeeva,  has been fined  40,000 Russian rubles ($680) by occupying Russian authorities for singing a patriotic Ukrainian song, according to Russian state media and pro-Russia regional authorities. Olga Valeeva was spared a jail sentence because she has young children, Russian state news agency TASS reported. A friend who sang with her was sentenced to 10 days in detention. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Journalist who held anti-war poster on Russian state TV confirms she has abandoned house arrest 
 
            From CNN’s Mick Krever in London. Translation by Olly Racz.
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Marina Ovsyannikova, a former Russian state TV journalist speaks to the press as she arrives for a hearing in a court in Moscow, Russia, on July 28. 
 (Alexander Zemlianichenko/AP) 
 
 
 
      Marina Ovsyannikova, the Russian journalist who held up an anti-war poster on Russian state TV, has confirmed that she has left her court-ordered house arrest.
   
 
      “I consider myself absolutely not guilty and because of our country’s refusal to execute its own laws, I refuse as of 30 September 2022 to observe my pre-trial restriction in a form of a house arrest and I free myself from all that,” Ovsyannikova  said in a statement  on her Telegram channel. 
   
 
      A court in August placed her under house arrest until October 9, charging her with disseminating false information about the Russian Armed Forces, TASS reported. 
   
 
      Ovsyannikova, a former employee of Russia Channel One, interrupted a broadcast in March holding up a sign that read: “NO WAR. Stop the war. Do not believe propaganda they tell you lies here.”
   
 
      At the time, Ovsyannikova  told  CNN’s Christiane Amanpour that many Russian journalists see a disconnect between reality and what is presented on the country’s television channels, saying “it was simply impossible to stay silent.”
   
 
      “Dear law enforcers, please put this type of bracelet on Putin as it’s he who should be isolated from society and not me. Putin should be put on trial for the genocide against the people of Ukraine and mass murder of Russia’s male population,” Ovsyannikova said  in a separate video  on Telegram on Wednesday while pointing to a monitoring bracelet on her ankle.
   
 
      Russia’s military leadership has “no idea about the number of victims among the civilian population” in Ukraine,” Ovsyannikova added.
   
 
      “Мaybe some judge’s, prosecutor’s or investigator’s conscience will wake up and they will stop calling the children who died in Ukraine fakes,” she said. “And they will stop prosecuting me for telling the truth.”
   
 
      “I’ve spent almost two months under house arrest,” she continued, adding that the whole time investigators have been referring to the words of Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu and his spokesperson Major-General Igor Konashenkov, “trying to pretend that not a single child died during the war in Ukraine.”
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Putin appoints "acting heads" of 4 annexed Ukraine regions, in violation of international law 
 
            From CNN's Radina Gigova 
         
 
 
 
 
      Russian President Vladimir Putin has designated “acting heads” of four illegally annexed Ukrainian regions, according to Russian state news agency TASS. 
   
 
      The four newly appointed leaders will govern until official heads for the regions are elected in accordance with Russian law, TASS reported Wednesday. 
   
 
      All four acting heads are the same officials who led the regions under Russian occupation before Putin  signed into law  the annexation documents, which are in violation of international law. 
   
 
      Denis Pushilin became acting head of the Donetsk People’s Republic (DPR) and Leonid Pasechnik is now acting head of the Luhansk People’s Republic (LPR), according to TASS. Yevgeny Balitsky will be the acting governor in the Zaporizhzhia region, and Vladimir Saldo is now the acting governor in the Kherson region.
   
 
      The four officials signed the so-called treaties on the accession of the four respective regions into Russia on September 30 during a ceremony in the Kremlin.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EU member states reach "political agreement" on new sanctions against Russia 
 
            From CNN’s Alex Hardie and Chris Liakos
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell delivers a speech during a debate on the Russian invasion of Ukraine, during a plenary session at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, eastern France, on October 5. 
 (Frederick Florin/AFP/Getty Images) 
 
 
 
      European Union member states have agreed on a fresh round of sanctions against Russia, according to the Czech Presidency of the EU Council.
   
 
      “Ambassadors reached a political agreement on new sanctions against Russia – a strong EU response to Putin’s illegal annexation of Ukrainian territories,” the Czech Presidency tweeted Wednesday.
   
 
      The eighth package of sanctions against Russia – which was proposed by the European Commission last week – will include an oil price cap, among other measures.
   
 
      The package will include prohibition of maritime transport of Russian oil to third countries above the oil price cap, an extended import ban on goods and a ban on providing IT, engineering and legal services to Russian entities, the presidency added. 
   
 
      It will also include new criteria for sanctions circumvention.
   
 
      “Ambassadors have been working hard on this. Last night they were working, and the committee continued this morning,” the bloc’s top diplomat Josep Borrell said at the EU Parliament earlier Wednesday. 
   
 
      The package is expected to be published later today. 
   
 
      The agreement follows a proposal from the European Commission last week, ahead of Moscow’s illegal annexation of four regions in Ukraine. 
   
 
      Other Western allies have also leveled new sanctions against Russia in the wake of Putin’s announcement. 
   
 
      The White House announced it was imposing  “swift and severe costs”  on  Russia on Friday, including sanctions against the head of Russia’s central bank, Elvira Nabiullina, a figure the Biden administration said is key to the country’s economy.
   
 
      The UK has unveiled new bans on exports of goods and services to Russia. On Tuesday, it also  added  Sergei Vladimirovich Yeliseyev, the deputy prime minister of the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad and the head of Moscow-backed authorities in Kherson, to its list of sanctioned individuals.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Russian forces are "regrouping," says pro-Russian leader in Kherson, amid Ukrainian offensive 
 
            From Olga Voitovych in Kyiv
         
 
 
 
 
      The Russian-appointed deputy leader in the occupied Kherson region has sought to explain Ukraine’s rapid advance in recent days by saying that the Russian military was “regrouping.”
   
 
      “The Russian army is conducting maneuvers,” Kirill Stremousov  told Russian state news RIA Novosti . “The regrouping of the front in the current conditions allows us to gather strength and strike.”
   
 
      The Russian Defense Ministry also used the phrase “regrouping” in September to describe the retreat of the Russian military in response to Ukraine’s military operation that recaptured the key city of Izyum, in the northeastern Kharkiv region.
   
 
      Stremousov on Wednesday claimed that Ukraine’s advance had been stopped, and that it was “impossible” for them to enter the occupied city of Kherson.
   
 
      Earlier Wednesday, Russian President Vladimir Putin  signed into law  measures that claim to annex Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhzhia and Kherson into the Russian Federation.
   
 
      The  annexations  are illegal under international law and have been dismissed by world leaders as the result of “sham” referendums held at gunpoint.
   
 
      Moscow does not fully control the regions it claims to have annexed, as Kyiv punctures Russia’s defenses and makes key territorial gains amid a sweeping offensive across Ukraine’s south and east. 
   
 
 CNN’s Mick Krever, Josh Pennington and Rob Picheta contributed reporting.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ukrainian official urges West to forget the "illusion" of Russian normality 
 
            From CNN's Mick Krever
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Russian President Vladimir Putin with Ukrainian separatist leaders Vladimir Saldo, left, Yevgeniy Balitsky, second left, Leonid Pasechnik, right, and Denis Pushilin, second right, during the annexation ceremony of four Ukrainian regions at the Kremlin on September 30. 
 (Getty Images) 
 
 
 
      A top Ukrainian official on Wednesday urged Western leaders to stop thinking about Russia through a lens of “normality,” in which negotiations are a possibility.
   
 
	“Western politicians must get rid of ‘RF’s normality’ illusion, with the negotiating possibility,”  said Mykhailo Podolyak , adviser to the head of the office of the Ukrainian President, referring to the Russian Federation. “Listen to Putin’s speeches. Imbued with contempt for Western world, traditional system of international relations and international law. His dream is Europe under the ‘Russian boot.’”
 
 
      Earlier on Wednesday, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed into law measures that claim to annex four Ukrainian regions into the Russian Federation. The claimed annexations of Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhzhia and Kherson are illegal under international law.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Zelensky calls for "special tribunal" to pursue Russian leadership for crimes against Ukraine 
 
            From CNN's From Mick Krever
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky delivers an address via video link to the participants of the public debate "War and Law" in Paris, France, on October 4. 
 (President of Ukraine) 
 
 
 
      Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Wednesday called for the creation of a “special tribunal” to pursue Russian political and military leaders for their role in the invasion of Ukraine.
   
 
	“We must bring to justice those whose decisions started all this,”  he told a conference in Paris . “Those who committed the original crime. A crime in which all the evil shown by the Russian occupiers is concentrated. “And we still do not have such an institutional basis to hold the Russian political and military leadership accountable for the crime of aggression.”
 
 
      Zelensky praised the work of the International Criminal Court for investigating alleged crimes committed by Russian troops on Ukrainian territory. But he added that “for the original crime of armed aggression to receive a fair answer as well, we must supplement the activities of the International Criminal Court.”
   
 
	“A special tribunal should be established for the crime of aggression against Ukraine. So that it can punish those who, unfortunately, cannot be reached by the International Criminal Court and all other available judicial institutions of the world,” Zelensky said. “You all know how the leadership of Russia, hiding behind false stories about state sovereignty, avoids fair responsibility for what it has done. We have to overcome that.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Miss Crimea fined by Russian authorities for singing patriotic Ukrainian song 
 
            From CNN's Olga Voitovych in Kyiv
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The winner of Miss Crimea 2022 Olga Valeeva poses for an Instagram selfie. 
 (olga_rijjylya/Instagram) 
 
 
 
      The winner of Miss Crimea 2022 has been fined 40,000 Russian rubles ($680) by occupying Russian authorities for singing a patriotic Ukrainian song, according to Russian state media and pro-Russia regional authorities.
   
 
      Olga Valeeva was spared a jail sentence because she has young children, Russian state news agency TASS reported. Her friend was sentenced to 10 days detention.
   
 
	“In Crimea, no one is punished for normal Ukrainian songs,” Oleg Kriuchkov, adviser to the Russian administration head of occupied Crimea,  said on Telegram .  “But! No one will allow nationalist hymns to be sung here! If you want to sing ‘Chervona Kalyna’ or ‘Our father is Bandera…’ we will provide a platform – we will take you to neutral territory to Nikolaev or Zaporozhzhia. Sing all you want!”
 
 
 What she sang:  “Chervona Kalyna” is a patriotic Ukrainian song that has gained virality over the course of Russia’s full-scale invasion, including a cover version by Pink Floyd. The lyrics urge the Ukrainian nation to rise up and “rejoice” like a red kalyna shrub (“chervona kalyna”) that has drooped in the field.
   
 
      The Ukrainian region of Crimea was illegally annexed by Russian in 2014.
   
 
      A spokesperson for the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Crimea said that it identified a video online in which “two girls sang a song that is the battle anthem of an extremist organization.”
   
 
      The two were detained on suspicion of “committing illegal actions aimed at discrediting the use of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, as well as publicly displaying prohibited symbols,” the spokesperson added. They were subsequently found guilty by a court, the ministry said.
   
 
 Correction: An earlier version of this post misstated the reason why Valeeva was spared jail. According to Russian state media, it is because she has young children. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In rare state TV admission, Russian war correspondent acknowledges Kherson losses  
 
            From CNN's Josh Pennington
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Russian war correspondent Alexander Sladkov at the Ostankino TV Center in Moscow on June, 23, 2021. 
 (Anton Novoderezhkin/TASS/ZUMA Press) 
 
 
 
      A top Russian war correspondent on Tuesday conceded on state television that Russian forces had endured significant losses at the hands of Ukraine’s counteroffensive, saying “we are still learning.”
   
 
	“In the Kherson region, we have lost 17 settlements,” Alexander Sladkov said, placing the blame on “fat” US weapons deliveries and “intelligence gathered via satellite reconnaissance.”
 
 
      Sladkov is one of several Russian reporters in recent days to convey the losses Moscow is suffering in Ukraine. 
   
 
      War correspondent Alexander Kots told his Telegram followers Tuesday that the military was in “operational crisis,” while state media reporter Evgeniy Poddubnyy said, “for the time being it will become even harder.”
   
 
      Sladkov, however, tried to put a positive spin on things.
   
 
	“This doesn’t mean that we’ve collapsed like a house of cards. These mistakes aren’t gigantic strategic failures. We are still learning,” he said. “I know this is hard to hear in our eighth month of the special operation. But we are reporters. We are waiting for reinforcements,” he added, referring to Russian men conscripted as part of a “special mobilization” declared by President Vladimir Putin last month.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Putin signs laws claiming to annex 4 Ukrainian regions 
 
            From CNN's Mick Krever, Josh Pennington and Rob Picheta
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Russian President Vladimir Putin speaks in Moscow on September 30. 
 (Getty Images) 
 
 
 
      Russian President Vladimir Putin has signed into law measures that claim to annex four Ukrainian regions into the Russian Federation.
   
 
      The claimed annexations of Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhzhia and Kherson are illegal under international law.
   
 
      Leaders around the world have said they are the result of “sham” referendums held at gunpoint, and will never be recognized.
   
 
      However, the move is an important step in Russia’s faltering effort to seize control in Ukraine, with Putin claiming that the will of occupied Ukrainians is to belong to Russia — offering a false pretext to his efforts to claim the occupied territories as Moscow’s.
   
 
      Western officials have previously suggested that Putin will likely seek to reframe Ukraine’s counteroffensive in the four regions and any others as an attack on Russia sovereignty.
   
 
 Some context:  Russia does not fully control the regions it claims to have annexed and Moscow is losing territory to the Ukrainian military in the south and east of the country by the day. In some areas, such as Kherson, those losses are coming at a rapid pace.
   
 
      The Kremlin does not even appear to be clear on the borders of the territory it is annexing. Spokesperson Dmitry Peskov on Monday said “we will continue consulting with the population of these regions.” 
   
 
      A regional Ukrainian official in the Zaporizhzhia region said on Tuesday that Russia was trying to establish a “state border” at the Vasylivka checkpoint, which separates Russian-held territory from the rest of Ukraine, including the regional capital of Zaporizhzhia.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Retreating Russians are leaving mines near Kherson, Ukrainian military says 
 
            From CNN's Mick Krever in London and Olga Voitovych in Kyiv
         
 
 
 
 
      Russian troops are leaving mines in southern Ukrainian villages as they retreat along the western bank of the Dnieper River, the Ukrainian military said on Wednesday.
   
 
	“Leaving the settlements in the Kherson region, the enemy mines infrastructure facilities and private houses, prohibits any movement of local residents,” the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said in its morning briefing. 
 
 
      It comes as Ukrainian forces have made additional gains in the south, pushing toward the occupied city of Kherson and capturing the town of Zolota Balka on the western bank of the Dnipro river,  according to a regional official and pro-Russian military blogger. 
 
 
 Conscription claims:  The Ukrainian Armed Forces also claimed Wednesday that pro-Russian authorities in occupied areas of Ukraine were “trying to compensate for the loss of personnel” on the battlefield by conscripting Ukrainians into the Russian military.
   
 
	“According to the available information, men from Luhansk, without conducting a medical commission and training, after mobilization are immediately sent to replenish the units that suffered the greatest losses,” the General Staff said.
 
 
      Ukrainian officials have been warning for some time that Russia planned to use its  claimed annexations  as a pretext to draft Ukrainians in occupied areas.
   
 
      On Monday, the Ukrainian military said Russian troops were carrying out  “door-to-door”  checks in occupied areas of Ukraine, looking for young men of conscription age, adding that Moscow had stepped up document inspections at checkpoints. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ukraine says at least 1 dead after Russian forces strike multiple targets with Iran-supplied "kamikaze drones" 
 
            From CNN's Jonny Hallam and Josh Pennington
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Governor of the Kyiv region, Oleksiy Kuleba, speaks during an interview in Kyiv on March 8. 
 (Valentyn Ogirenko/Reuters) 
 
 
 
      Russian forces on Wednesday launched repeated attacks with Iranian-supplied “kamikaze drones” against targets in Ukraine’s Kyiv region and to the south in Odesa, killing at least one person, according to Ukrainian officials. 
   
 
	“There have been a repeated series of kamikaze drone strikes on Bila Tserkva infrastructure,” Oleksiy Kuleba, head of the Kyiv region state administration, posted on Telegram. “There are fires at infrastructure facilities. There is one victim.”
 
 
      Kuleba added emergency crews were responding and asked all Kyiv residents “to remain in their shelters.”  
   
 
      “The danger is still present,” Kuleba warned, as air raid sirens sounded in the region.
   
 
      Kirilo Tymoshenko, deputy head of Ukraine’s presidential office, said Russian forces had also launched an attack on the southern port city of Odesa with a “Shahed-136” kamikaze drone. 
   
 
      Tymoshenko said Ukrainian air defense forces were able to “detect and destroy the enemy’s drone over the sea,” in a post on his Telegram account.
   
 
      Unverified videos posted on social media Wednesday showed fire and plumes of smoke in the night sky following the attack on Bila Tserkva south of Kyiv.
   
 
 Some context:  US intelligence warned in July that Tehran planned to send Russia “hundreds” of bomb-carrying drones for use in the war in Ukraine. In August, a  US official told CNN  Russian troops were believed to have been training on the Iranian built drones for several weeks.
   
 
      Iran began showcasing the Shahed-191 and Shahed-129 drones, also known as UAVs or Unmanned Aerial Vehicles, to Russia at Kashan Airfield south of Tehran in June, US officials told CNN. 
   
 
      Both types of drones are capable of carrying precision-guided missiles. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Japan to reopen embassy in Kyiv after 7-month closure 
 
            From CNN’s Emiko Jozuka in Tokyo
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Hirokazu Matsuno attends a news conference in Tokyo on August 24. 
 (Kyodonews/Zuma Press) 
 
 
 
      Japan will reopen its embassy in Ukraine’s capital Kyiv on Wednesday following a seven-month closure due to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.
   
 
	“After careful consideration, we have decided to reopen the Japanese embassy in Kyiv while taking sufficient safety measures into account,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Hirokazu Matsuno told reporters at a news conference. 
 
 
      Japan temporarily closed its embassy in Kyiv in early March, transferring staff members and operations to a temporary liaison office in the western city of Lviv. Embassy staff left Ukraine later that month as Russia’s invasion of Ukraine intensified. 
   
 
      Japan’s move Wednesday comes as other Group of Seven nations also resume diplomatic operations in Ukraine.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ukrainian police claim to have uncovered "torture chamber" in formerly occupied town 
 
            From CNN's Yulia Kesaieva and Mick Krever
         
 
 
 
 
      Ukrainian police on Tuesday claimed to have uncovered a “torture chamber” in the formerly Russian-occupied town of Pisky-Radkivski in the northeastern Kharkiv region.
   
 
      Among the items found, according to police, was a container full of extracted gold teeth.
   
 
      “After the liberation of the village of Pisky-Radkivski, local residents reported to the police that in the basement of one of the houses captives were kept — local residents, ATO [Anti-Terrorist Operation] soldiers and POWs from the Armed Forces of Ukraine,” Serhiy Bolvinov, head of the investigation department of the National Police in the Kharkiv region,  said in a statement on Facebook .
   
 
      Bolvinov said local residents heard constant screaming from the building.
   
 
	“Investigators and prosecutors are working to establish all the facts that took place in this torture chamber,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ukraine pushes further toward Kherson as Zelensky praises "fast and powerful advance" 
 
            From CNN's Yulia Kesaieva and Victoria Butenko in Kyiv
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky speaks during his evening video message on Tuesday, October 4.  
 (Office of President of Ukraine) 
 
 
 
      Ukrainian forces  have pushed even further  toward the Russian-occupied city of Kherson, Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Tuesday.
   
 
	“The Ukrainian army is making a rather fast and powerful advance in the south of our country in the course of the ongoing defensive operation,” Zelensky said in his evening address. “Dozens of settlements have already been liberated from the Russian pseudo-referendum this week alone.”
 
 
      In the southern Kherson region, he said the towns of Liubymivka, Khreshchenivka, Zolota Balka, Biliaiivka, Ukraiinka, Velyka, Mala Oleksandrivka and Davydiv Brid had all been liberated, “and this is not a complete list.”
   
 
 
 
    “Our warriors do not stop. And it is only a matter of time when we will expel the occupier from all our land,” he said.
   
 
 
 
 
      Kherson is one of the four regions in Ukraine  that Russia has claimed it is annexing  in violation of international law.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Russian diplomat: US military aid to Ukraine hastens possibility of "direct military clash" 
 
            From CNN's Mick Krever, Uliana Pavlova, and Josh Pennington
         
 
 
 
 
      US military aid to Ukraine is hastening the possibility of a “direct military clash” between Russia and NATO, a Russian diplomat said on Tuesday.
   
 
      “The US continues to pump more weapons into Ukraine, facilitating the direct participation of its fighters and advisers in the conflict,” Konstantin Vorontsov, the head of the Russian delegation to the United Nations Disarmament Commission,  said at the UN General Assembly’s First Committee .
   
 
 
 
    “Not only does this prolong the fighting, but it also brings the situation closer to a dangerous line of a direct military clash between Russia and NATO,” he added.
   
 
 
 
 
      The diplomat’s comments come as the US announced  an additional $625 million  in security assistance to Ukraine. In a statement Tuesday, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken cited Ukrainian forces effectively using US support to push ahead with their “successful counteroffensive to take back their lands seized illegally by Russia.” 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In call with Zelensky, President Biden and VP Harris say the US "will never recognize" Russia's annexations 
 
            From CNN's Arlette Saenz and Betsy Klein
         
 
 
 
 
      US President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris spoke with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky Tuesday morning — days after Russian President Vladimir Putin declared Moscow would annex four Ukrainian territories following so-called  referendums  that were  universally dismissed as “a sham”  by Ukraine and Western nations. 
   
 
	Biden and Harris underscored “that the United States will never recognize Russia’s purported annexation of Ukrainian territory” and Biden “affirmed the continued readiness of the United States to impose severe costs on any individual, entity, or country that provides support to Russia’s purported annexation,” a White House readout said.
 
 
      Biden reiterated his country’s commitment to supporting Ukraine and the leaders discussed a new  $625 million security assistance package , which includes four more rocket systems, known as the High Mobility Artillery Rocket System (HIMARS), as well as additional howitzers and ammunition, as CNN reported previously.
   
 
      They also discussed a grain export agreement and “ongoing efforts of the United States to rally the world behind Ukraine’s efforts to defend its freedom and democracy, as enshrined in the United Nations Charter,” the readout said.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Russian defense ministry map confirms significant losses in Ukraine’s Kherson region 
 
            From CNN's Mick Krever and Uliana Pavlova
         
 
 
 
 
      A map used by the Russian Defense Ministry in its daily  briefing on Tuesday  confirmed significant Russian losses in Ukraine’s Kherson region, compared to a map of the same region used during its  briefing on Monday .
   
 
      The map confirms reports from Ukrainian and pro-Russian officials, as well as pro-Russian military analysts, of significant Ukrainian advances  toward the occupied city of Kherson , down the western bank of the Dnipro River. 
   
 
      Lt. Gen. Igor Konashenkov, who spoke while the map was shown full-screen, did not mention the losses. But he did say the Russian military destroyed Ukrainian armor and killed Kyiv’s forces in the area of several towns that are now understood to be under Ukrainian control — a tacit acknowledgement of Ukraine’s advance.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ukraine is hitting Russia hard in the regions Moscow is trying to seize 
 
            From CNN's Joshua Berlinger and Olga Voitovych
         
 
 
 
 
      As Vladimir Putin  lost more of the Ukrainian territory  he is seeking to annex, his government on Tuesday sought to finalize the formalities of its claim to four Ukrainian regions, none of which are fully controlled by Russia anymore.
   
 
      The upper house of Russia’s rubber-stamp legislature, the Federation Council, on Tuesday unanimously approved the decision to annex the Ukrainian regions of Donetsk, Kherson, Luhansk and Zaporizhzhia in defiance of international law and  a day after the lower chamber had done the same . President Putin was expected to sign the legislation later in the day, his spokesman said.
   
 
      Kyiv’s military, however, has continued to advance into several of the areas Russia now claims as its own, spurring questions about whether the Kremlin can hold the parts of those territories it currently controls — and even what Russia would consider its new border after the annexation. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Monday that Moscow needed to “continue consulting” with the local populations before establishing its boundaries.
   
 
 Read the full story: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TOPSHOT - A Ukrainian serviceman examines a destroyed Russian Uragan MLRS near the village of Sosnove, Donetsk region on September 30, 2022, amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine. (Photo by ANATOLII STEPANOV / AFP) (Photo by ANATOLII STEPANOV/AFP via Getty Images) 
 Anatolii Stepanov/AFP/Getty Images 
 
 
 
 
 Ukraine is hitting Russia hard in the regions Moscow is trying to seize | CNN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ad Feedback 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ad Feedback 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          Russia concedes big losses in south as pro-Putin voices paint a grim picture of setbacks
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          Ukraine is hitting Russia hard in the regions Moscow is trying to seize
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          Russian journalist who protested on live television escapes house arrest 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          India's words are anti-war, but New Delhi's actions are propping up Putin's regime
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          'F--- off,' ambassador tells Elon Musk after unveiling Ukraine 'peace' plan
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ad Feedback 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          Russia concedes big losses in south as pro-Putin voices paint a grim picture of setbacks
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          Ukraine is hitting Russia hard in the regions Moscow is trying to seize
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          Russian journalist who protested on live television escapes house arrest 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          India's words are anti-war, but New Delhi's actions are propping up Putin's regime
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          'F--- off,' ambassador tells Elon Musk after unveiling Ukraine 'peace' plan
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Log In
       
 
 
 
      My Account 
 
 
 
 
 
          Settings
         
 
 
 
          Log Out
         
 
 
 
 
 Your CNN account 
 Log in to your CNN account 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Live TV
       
 
        Audio
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
        US
       
 
 
 
            Crime + Justice
           
 
 
 
            Energy + Environment
           
 
 
 
            Extreme Weather
           
 
 
 
            Space + Science
           
 
 
 
 
 
        World
       
 
 
 
            Africa
           
 
 
 
            Americas
           
 
 
 
            Asia
           
 
 
 
            Australia
           
 
 
 
            China
           
 
 
 
            Europe
           
 
 
 
            India
           
 
 
 
            Middle East
           
 
 
 
            United Kingdom
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Politics
       
 
 
 
            The Biden Presidency
           
 
 
 
            Facts First
           
 
 
 
            US Elections
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Business
       
 
 
 
            Markets
           
 
 
 
            Tech
           
 
 
 
            Media
           
 
 
 
            Success
           
 
 
 
            Perspectives
           
 
 
 
            Videos
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Opinion
       
 
 
 
            Political Op-Eds
           
 
 
 
            Social Commentary
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Health
       
 
 
 
            Life, But Better
           
 
 
 
            Fitness
           
 
 
 
            Food
           
 
 
 
            Sleep
           
 
 
 
            Mindfulness
           
 
 
 
            Relationships
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Entertainment
       
 
 
 
            Stars
           
 
 
 
            Screen
           
 
 
 
            Binge
           
 
 
 
            Culture
           
 
 
 
            Media
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Tech
       
 
 
 
            Innovate
           
 
 
 
            Gadget
           
 
 
 
            Foreseeable Future
           
 
 
 
            Mission: Ahead
           
 
 
 
            Upstarts
           
 
 
 
            Work Transformed
           
 
 
 
            Innovative Cities
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Style
       
 
 
 
            Arts
           
 
 
 
            Design
           
 
 
 
            Fashion
           
 
 
 
            Architecture
           
 
 
 
            Luxury
           
 
 
 
            Beauty
           
 
 
 
            Video
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Travel
       
 
 
 
            Destinations
           
 
 
 
            Food & Drink
           
 
 
 
            Stay
           
 
 
 
            News
           
 
 
 
            Videos
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Sports
       
 
 
 
            Pro Football
           
 
 
 
            College Football
           
 
 
 
            Basketball
           
 
 
 
            Baseball
           
 
 
 
            Soccer
           
 
 
 
            Olympics
           
 
 
 
            Hockey
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Videos
       
 
 
 
            Live TV
           
 
 
 
            Digital Studios
           
 
 
 
            CNN Films
           
 
 
 
            HLN
           
 
 
 
            TV Schedule
           
 
 
 
            TV Shows A-Z
           
 
 
 
            CNNVR
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Audio
       
 
 
 
 
 
        CNN Underscored
       
 
 
 
            Electronics
           
 
 
 
            Fashion
           
 
 
 
            Beauty
           
 
 
 
            Health & Fitness
           
 
 
 
            Home
           
 
 
 
            Reviews
           
 
 
 
            Deals
           
 
 
 
            Money
           
 
 
 
            Gifts
           
 
 
 
            Travel
           
 
 
 
            Outdoors
           
 
 
 
            Pets
           
 
 
 
            CNN Store
           
 
 
 
            Coupons
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Weather
       
 
 
 
            Climate
           
 
 
 
            Storm Tracker
           
 
 
 
            Wildfire Tracker
           
 
 
 
            Video
           
 
 
 
 
 
        More
       
 
 
 
            Photos
           
 
 
 
            Longform
           
 
 
 
            Investigations
           
 
 
 
            CNN Profiles
           
 
 
 
            CNN Leadership
           
 
 
 
            CNN Newsletters
           
 
 
 
            Work for CNN
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Audio
           
 
            Live TV
           
 
 
 Follow CNN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Log In
       
 
 
 
      My Account 
 
 
 
 
 
          Settings
         
 
 
 
          Log Out
         
 
 
 
 
 Your CNN account 
 Log in to your CNN account 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          Terms of Use
         
 
          Privacy Policy
         
 
 
 
          Ad Choices
         
 
          Accessibility & CC
         
 
          About
         
 
          Newsletters
         
 
          Transcripts
         
 
 © 2022 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.   CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
