World Africa Americas Asia Australia More China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Audio Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Search Audio Edition U.S. International Arabic Español Edition U.S. International Arabic Español US Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food and Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Videos Live TV  Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Audio CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Coupons Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Follow CNN  October 4, 2022 Russia-Ukraine news By  Kathleen Magramo ,  Adrienne Vogt , Sana Noor Haq and  Aditi Sangal , CNN Updated     1:27 a.m. ET, October 5, 2022 What we covered Kyiv’s forces are pressing forward with territory gains in  the south  and  east , including in regions  Russia claims it is annexing  in violation of international law.  Ukraine has continued its eastern counteroffensive and pushed into the Luhansk region, pro-Russian officials said, after recapturing a  key Donetsk city.  Forces are also  breaking through Moscow's defenses  in the southern Kherson region, with more areas liberated “every day," a Ukrainian official said. US military aid to Ukraine is hastening the possibility of a "direct military clash" between Russia and NATO,  a Russian diplomat said on Tuesday. 38 Posts Sort by Latest Oldest 1:27 a.m. ET, October 5, 2022 Our live coverage of  Russia's war in Ukraine has moved here. 5:23 p.m. ET, October 4, 2022 Ukrainian police claim to have uncovered "torture chamber" in formerly occupied town From CNN's Yulia Kesaieva and Mick Krever Ukrainian police on Tuesday claimed to have uncovered a “torture chamber” in the formerly Russian-occupied town of Pisky-Radkivski in the eastern Kharkiv region. Among the items found, according to police, was a container full of extracted gold teeth. “After the liberation of the village of Pisky-Radkivski, local residents reported to the police that in the basement of one of the houses captives were kept – local residents, ATO [Anti-Terrorist Operation] soldiers and POWs from the Armed Forces of Ukraine,” Serhiy Bolvinov, head of the investigation department of the National Police in the Kharkiv region,  said in a statement on Facebook . Bolvinov said that local residents heard constant screaming from the building. “Investigators and prosecutors are working to establish all the facts that took place in this torture chamber,” he said. 5:08 p.m. ET, October 4, 2022 Nord Stream operator says it's unable to inspect pipeline damage due to restrictions From CNN's Chris Liakos and Robert North A large disturbance in the sea is seen off the coast of the Danish island of Bornholm on Tuesday, September 27. (Danish Defence Command/AP) The operator of the Nord Stream gas pipeline said Tuesday that it is “unable to inspect” the damage  following gas leaks last week  due to restrictions imposed by Swedish and Danish authorities. The company – whose shareholders include Russian gas giant Gazprom and four European energy companies – said that according to the Swedish authorities, “a ban on shipping, anchoring, diving, using of underwater vehicles, geophysical mapping, etc. has been introduced to conduct a state investigation around the damage sites in the Baltic Sea.” The processing time of the Nord Stream AG request for the survey may take more than 20 working days, the company said, citing Danish authorities. And the ship that was going to investigate the damage hasn't been given permission to depart by the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Nord Stream AG said. Some background:  Last week, four leaks were discovered in the pipelines, near the Danish island of Bornholm, in the Baltic Sea.   President Joe Biden  on Friday called the  leaks  a “deliberate act of sabotage” and accused Russia and President Vladimir Putin of “pumping out disinformation and lies,” though he did not directly accuse Moscow of the leaks. Putin, for his part, claimed “Anglo-Saxons” were to blame for the explosions.   4:49 p.m. ET, October 4, 2022 Ukraine pushes further toward Kherson as Zelensky praises "fast and powerful advance" From CNN's Yulia Kesaieva and Victoria Butenko in Kyiv Ukrainian forces  have pushed even further  toward the Russian-occupied city of Kherson, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Tuesday. “The Ukrainian army is making a rather fast and powerful advance in the south of our country in the course of the ongoing defensive operation,” Zelensky said in his evening address. “Dozens of settlements have already been liberated from the Russian pseudo-referendum this week alone.” In the southern Kherson region, he said that the towns of Liubymivka, Khreshchenivka, Zolota Balka, Biliaiivka, Ukraiinka, Velyka, Mala Oleksandrivka and Davydiv Brid had all been liberated, “and this is not a complete list.” “Our warriors do not stop. And it is only a matter of time when we will expel the occupier from all our land," he said.  Kherson is one of the four regions in Ukraine  that Russia has claimed it is annexing  in violation of international law.  3:05 p.m. ET, October 4, 2022 Russian diplomat: US military aid to Ukraine hastens possibility of "direct military clash" From Mick Krever, Uliana Pavlova, and Josh Pennington US military aid to Ukraine is hastening the possibility of a “direct military clash” between Russia and NATO, a Russian diplomat said on Tuesday. "The US continues to pump more weapons into Ukraine, facilitating the direct participation of its fighters and advisers in the conflict,” Konstantin Vorontsov, the head of the Russian delegation to the United Nations Disarmament Commission,  said at the UN General Assembly’s First Committee . “Not only does this prolong the fighting, but it also brings the situation closer to a dangerous line of a direct military clash between Russia and NATO," he added.  The diplomat's comments come as the US announced  an additional $625 million  in security assistance to Ukraine. In a statement Tuesday, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken cited Ukrainian forces effectively using US support to push ahead with their “successful counter-offensive to take back their lands seized illegally by Russia.”  3:06 p.m. ET, October 4, 2022 "We want to liberate all of our territory," key Zelensky advisor tells CNN  From CNN’s Emmet Lyons and Maddie Araujo Mykhailo Podolyak in an interview with Christiane Amanpour for CNN, on Tuesday. (CNN) Ukraine intends to liberate all of the country’s territory, including Crimea which has been under Russian occupation since 2014, Mykhailo Podolyak, a key advisor to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, told CNN. “We are for western values. We want to liberate all of our territory,” Podolyak said Tuesday. “All the threats by the Russian Federation will not stop Ukraine in order to liberate our territory ... including the occupied territories from back in 2014.” He was unambiguous on Ukraine’s aims following successful counteroffensives in the east and in the south of the country.  “We are liberating cities and towns in all sorts of directions. In the south, in Kharkiv, in Luhansk. We will have to hold on to those territories,” Podolyak told CNN. “Using western weaponry our partners have sent to us, it has proven to be more effective than all Russian repertory that the Russian army is using.”  “All of this mobilization panic that Russia is demonstrating shows the Russian army does not have enough soldiers,” he said.  Podolyak was Ukraine’s lead negotiator in the last round of diplomatic negotiations between Ukraine and Russia earlier this year.  2:12 p.m. ET, October 4, 2022 Zaporizhzhia plant director will be replaced following release from Russia detention, UN nuclear watchdog says From CNN's Chris Liakos Ihor Murashov, the director general of Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, will not continue his duties at the facility following his release from Russian detention, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said Tuesday. Murashov was detained by a Russian patrol, the president of Ukraine’s state nuclear company Energoatom, Petro Kotin, said on Saturday. Kotin said Murashov was in his vehicle on his way from the plant when he was stopped, taken out of the car, and driven in an unknown direction while blindfolded. The IAEA said Monday that it had received confirmation that Murashov  had returned to his family safely . “The IAEA understands that Mr Murashov is now with his family in territory controlled by Ukraine and will not be continuing with his duties at the ZNPP. It is not yet clear who will replace him in this role,” IAEA said in an updated statement on Tuesday. The IAEA, the United Nations' nuclear watchdog, said that Murashov’s “absence from duty in this way had an immediate and serious impact on decision-making in ensuring the safety and security of the plant.” Key things to know about the plant:  The Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, the largest nuclear complex of its kind in Europe, was seized by Russian forces at the start of the war. The plant and the area around it, including the nearby city of Enerhodar, have endured persistent shelling in recent months, with Ukraine and Russia trading accusations for the shelling. The agency also said that “IAEA experts present at the ZNPP reported that repair work was completed today at the sprinkler pond in the area of Unit 5 and Unit 6, which had been damaged from shelling on 20 September.” There has been no reported shelling in the vicinity of the ZNPP since Oct. 4, according to IAEA.  IAEA chief Rafael Grossi is due to travel to Kyiv and then to Moscow later this week for consultations “aimed at agreeing and implementing a nuclear safety and security protection zone around the ZNPP as soon as possible.” 2:23 p.m. ET, October 4, 2022 Ukrainian official: Russia is trying to establish a "state border" at line of control in Zaporizhzhia region From CNN's Yulia Kesaieva in Kyiv. Russia is trying to establish a “state border” at the point that divides Russian and Ukrainian control in Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia region, a regional Ukrainian official said on Tuesday.  The number of people crossing out of Russian-occupied territory through the Vasylivka checkpoint has dropped from several thousand per day last week —  before Russia’s claimed annexations  —  to just a handful now, according to the Ukrainian government, which says that the crossing is effectively closed.  In establishing these borders, they are placing "rules to pass that they had come up with,” Oleksandr Starukh, head of the Zaporizhzhia Regional Military Authority,  said on national television .  Zaporizhzhia is one four territories in Ukraine that Russia claims it is annexing. “As a result, they are not allowing the men of the conscription age [to cross]. The day before yesterday only eight people managed to get out by some side and goat trails. Otherwise, one can say that transit in both directions has been stopped,” he said. These actions replicate what Moscow "did with Crimea and Donbas,” Starukh said. Ukraine is “trying to solve this issue through the international communities, and through addressing Russia, who are obliged to open the humanitarian corridors,” said Iryna Vereshchuk, the Ukrainian minister of Reintegration of Temporarily Occupied Territories. The Kremlin  does not appear to be clear  on what territory exactly it has annexed, as large parts of the regions it says are Russia are still controlled by Ukrainian forces. On Monday, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said, “we will continue consulting with the population of these regions.” 1:37 p.m. ET, October 4, 2022 Leader of Belarus says his country is "participating" in the war but is not an active military party From CNN's Uliana Pavlova and Chris Liakos Belarus' President Alexander Lukashenko speaks during an interview at his residence, the Independence Palace, in the capital Minsk, on July 21. (Alexander Nemenov/AFP/Getty Images/File) Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko said Tuesday that his country has been caught up in the Russia-Ukraine war but that it is not an active military party to the conflict. “As for our participation in a special military operation in Ukraine, we are participating. We do not hide it. But we are not killing anyone. We are not sending our military anywhere. We do not violate our obligations,” Lukashenko said during a military meeting, according to a video recording of the meeting by the state news agency Belta. Russia also calls its war in Ukraine a "special military operation."  He then said that his country is “participating” in the war by preventing its spread into Belarus and by preventing “a strike on Belarus under the guise of a special military operation from Poland, Lithuania and Latvia.” “As I said, no one will shoot Russians in the back from the territory of Belarus. That’s our participation," the Belarusian leader said. He added that Belarus is also caught up in the conflict as a point of entry for refugees. “Yes, treat people if necessary. Yes, we feed people. And not only Russians. We feed most of all those refugees, beggars, poor people who come to us from Ukraine," Lukashenko said. "... How not to feed them, how not to treat them? This is our participation in this military operation. There is no other way and there won’t be.”  He stressed that Belarus is not planning to announce any mobilization but that it intends to learn from Russia’s experience.  Lukashenko has been a close ally of Russian leader Vladimir Putin, and Belarus was used as a launch point for Russian troops in February. The Belarusian leader has previously said his country was “being dragged” into the war.   Search Audio US Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics The Biden Presidency Facts First 2022 Midterms Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food and Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Videos Live TV  Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Audio CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Coupons Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video More Photos Longform Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN World Audio Follow CNN  Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility & CC Ad Choices About Us CNN Store Newsletters Transcripts License Footage CNN Newsource Sitemap ©    2022    Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Please enable JavaScript for a better experience.