
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CNN values your feedback 
 
 
 
 
                                                        1. How relevant is this ad to you?
                                                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                2. Did you encounter any technical issues?
                                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                        Video player was slow to load content
                                                                         
 
 
 
                                                                        Video content never loaded
                                                                         
 
 
 
                                                                        Ad froze or did not finish loading
                                                                         
 
 
 
                                                                        Video content did not start after ad
                                                                         
 
 
 
                                                                        Audio on ad was too loud
                                                                         
 
 
 
                                                                        Other issues
                                                                         
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                        Ad never loaded
                                                                         
 
 
 
                                                                        Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading
                                                                         
 
 
 
                                                                        Content moved around while ad loaded
                                                                         
 
 
 
                                                                        Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously
                                                                         
 
 
 
                                                                        Other issues
                                                                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                        Cancel
                                                 
 
                                                        Submit
                                                 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thank You! 
 
                                        Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated.
                                 
 
                                        Close
                                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ad Feedback 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 World 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                  
                  Africa
                 
 
 
 
                  
                  Americas
                 
 
 
 
                  
                  Asia
                 
 
 
 
                  
                  Australia
                 
 
 
 
                  
                  China
                 
 
 
 
                  
                  Europe
                 
 
 
 
                  
                  India
                 
 
 
 
                  
                  Middle East
                 
 
 
 
                  
                  United Kingdom
                 
 
 
 
                  More
                 
 
 
                    Africa
                   
 
                    Americas
                   
 
                    Asia
                   
 
                    Australia
                   
 
                    China
                   
 
                    Europe
                   
 
                    India
                   
 
                    Middle East
                   
 
                    United Kingdom
                   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Audio
           
 
            Live TV
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Log In
       
 
 
 
      My Account 
 
 
 
 
 
          Settings
         
 
 
 
          Log Out
         
 
 
 
 
 Your CNN account 
 Log in to your CNN account 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Log In
       
 
 
 
      My Account 
 
 
 
 
 
          Settings
         
 
 
 
          Log Out
         
 
 
 
 
 Your CNN account 
 Log in to your CNN account 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Live TV
           
 
            Audio
           
 
 
 
 Edition 
 
 
                  US
                 
 
 
 
                  International
                 
 
 
 
                  Arabic
                 
 
 
 
                  Español
                 
 
 
 
 
                Edition 
 
 
 
 
 
                  US
                 
 
 
 
                  International
                 
 
 
 
                  Arabic
                 
 
 
 
                  Español
                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                  Africa
                 
 
 
 
                  Americas
                 
 
 
 
                  Asia
                 
 
 
 
                  Australia
                 
 
 
 
                  China
                 
 
 
 
                  Europe
                 
 
 
 
                  India
                 
 
 
 
                  Middle East
                 
 
 
 
                  United Kingdom
                 
 
 
 
 Follow CNN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        US
       
 
 
 
            Crime + Justice
           
 
 
 
            Energy + Environment
           
 
 
 
            Extreme Weather
           
 
 
 
            Space + Science
           
 
 
 
 
 
        World
       
 
 
 
            Africa
           
 
 
 
            Americas
           
 
 
 
            Asia
           
 
 
 
            Australia
           
 
 
 
            China
           
 
 
 
            Europe
           
 
 
 
            India
           
 
 
 
            Middle East
           
 
 
 
            United Kingdom
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Politics
       
 
 
 
            SCOTUS
           
 
 
 
            Congress
           
 
 
 
            Facts First
           
 
 
 
            2020 Election
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Business
       
 
 
 
            Markets
           
 
 
 
            Tech
           
 
 
 
            Media
           
 
 
 
            Success
           
 
 
 
            Perspectives
           
 
 
 
            Video
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Opinion
       
 
 
 
            Political Op-Eds
           
 
 
 
            Social Commentary
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Health
       
 
 
 
            Life, But Better
           
 
 
 
            Fitness
           
 
 
 
            Food
           
 
 
 
            Sleep
           
 
 
 
            Mindfulness
           
 
 
 
            Relationships
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Entertainment
       
 
 
 
            Stars
           
 
 
 
            Screen
           
 
 
 
            Binge
           
 
 
 
            Culture
           
 
 
 
            Media
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Tech
       
 
 
 
            Innovate
           
 
 
 
            Gadget
           
 
 
 
            Foreseeable Future
           
 
 
 
            Mission: Ahead
           
 
 
 
            Upstarts
           
 
 
 
            Work Transformed
           
 
 
 
            Innovative Cities
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Style
       
 
 
 
            Arts
           
 
 
 
            Design
           
 
 
 
            Fashion
           
 
 
 
            Architecture
           
 
 
 
            Luxury
           
 
 
 
            Beauty
           
 
 
 
            Video
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Travel
       
 
 
 
            Destinations
           
 
 
 
            Food & Drink
           
 
 
 
            Stay
           
 
 
 
            Videos
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Sports
       
 
 
 
            Pro Football
           
 
 
 
            College Football
           
 
 
 
            Basketball
           
 
 
 
            Baseball
           
 
 
 
            Soccer
           
 
 
 
            Olympics
           
 
 
 
            Hockey
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Videos
       
 
 
 
            Live TV
           
 
 
 
            Digital Studios
           
 
 
 
            CNN Films
           
 
 
 
            HLN
           
 
 
 
            TV Schedule
           
 
 
 
            TV Shows A-Z
           
 
 
 
            CNNVR
           
 
 
 
 
 
        CNN Underscored
       
 
 
 
            Electronics
           
 
 
 
            Fashion
           
 
 
 
            Beauty
           
 
 
 
            Health & Fitness
           
 
 
 
            Home
           
 
 
 
            Reviews
           
 
 
 
            Deals
           
 
 
 
            Money
           
 
 
 
            Gifts
           
 
 
 
            Travel
           
 
 
 
            Outdoors
           
 
 
 
            Pets
           
 
 
 
            CNN Store
           
 
 
 
            Coupons
           
 
 
 
 
 
        More
       
 
 
 
            Photos
           
 
 
 
            Longform
           
 
 
 
            Investigations
           
 
 
 
            CNN Profiles
           
 
 
 
            CNN Leadership
           
 
 
 
            CNN Newsletters
           
 
 
 
            Work for CNN
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 Live Updates 
 
 
      October 8, 2022 Russia-Ukraine news
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
			By  Amy Woodyatt ,  Adrienne Vogt  and  Matt Meyer , CNN
		 
 
 
  Updated
        8:17 PM EDT, Sat October 8, 2022
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Video Ad Feedback 
 
 
 
 Surveillance footage captures large explosion on key bridge to Russian-annexed Crimea 
 03:23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What we covered here 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A huge blast severely damaged  the only bridge  connecting annexed Crimea to the Russian mainland, causing parts of Europe’s longest bridge to collapse. At least three people were  killed in the explosion , according to Russian officials. 
 Russian officials say the explosion was caused by a truck blowing up on the road bridge. Ukrainian officials have publicly  celebrated the explosion , without directly acknowledging that Kyiv was responsible.  
 Meanwhile, a cargo train in Ilovaisk in the Russian-occupied Donetsk region  was hit by a “powerful explosion,”  an aide to Mariupol’s mayor says. 
 The last power line connecting the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant to Ukraine’s power grid was damaged and disconnected Saturday  due to shelling from Russian forces , according to Ukraine’s nuclear operator. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All 
 Catch Up 
 Crimean Bridge 
 Zaporizhzhia 
 
 
 31 Posts 
 Sort By 
 
 Latest 
 Oldest 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Our live coverage of  Russia’s war in Ukraine has moved here. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Satellite images show aftermath of Crimea bridge explosion 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Satellite image of Crimea Bridge explosion aftermath. 
 (Maxar Technologies) 
 
 
 
      Maxar satellite images captured the damage to the Kerch Strait bridge Saturday, shortly after an  explosion rocked  the only direct road and rail connection between annexed Crimea and mainland Russia.
   
 
      The blast caused parts of the bridge to collapse, though Russian transportation officials  restarted rail service  and allowed vehicles to use some undamaged portions of the roadway by Saturday evening.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 A close up view of damaged bridge and rail cars on fire Crimea bridge. 
 (Maxar Technologies) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Analysis: Putin faces more grim choices after blast hits his prized Crimea bridge 
 
            Analysis by Nick Paton Walsh
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Russian President Vladimir Putin, centre, speaks with workers visiting the road section of the road-rail bridge linking Crimea to mainland Russia near Kerch, Crimea, on March 14, 2018. Putin hailed the bridge, which is set to be completed later this year, as a major engineering achievement and praised those involved in its construction. 
 (Yuri Kochetkov/Pool/AP) 
 
 
 
      The  Crimean bridge explosion  accelerates the strategic choices Russian President Vladimir Putin must make about Russia’s occupation of southern Ukraine.
   
 
      This entire presence was already poorly supplied, managed and in retreat. Rickety ferry crossings in bad weather or highly dangerous air cargo flights may now be needed to bolster military shipments into Crimea and toward the frontlines. 
   
 
      Ukraine has been targeting Russia’ aging transport dependencies — particularly its reliance on rail — with slow, patient accuracy. First  Izium , which led to the collapse around  Kharkiv . Then Lyman, which is leading to the erosion of Russia’s control of Donetsk and Luhansk. And now the Kerch Strait bridge, which had become so vital to everything that Russia is trying to hold on to in the south.
   
 
	Putin now faces a series of expedited and painful decisions, all of which will severely belie his continued poker-face of pride and bombast toward the gathering signs of slow defeat.
 
 
      To the west of the Dnieper river, his army in Kherson is besieged by fast-moving Ukrainian forces. Putin’s troops are already in retreat, partially owing to the same poor resupply that will be accentuated by the Kerch blast.
   
 
      They are again cut off from this faltering supply line by another series of damaged or targeted bridges across the Dnieper. Over the past week, they have already fallen back over 500 square kilometers (about 193 square miles). 
   
 
      Can Moscow sustain this force over two damaged supply routes? A precarious presence has perhaps overnight become near-impossible. 
   
 
      The second point of decision relates to  Crimea . Putin now faces the difficult choice of fortifying it further with depleted forces who face resupply issues, or partially withdrawing his military to ensure their significant resources on the peninsula do not get cut off.
   
 
      Putin must choose between feeding his larger ambitions with a dwindling chance of success or consolidating forces around an objective he has a greater chance of achieving.
   
 
      One carries the risk of catastrophic collapse, for his entire brutal adventure into Ukraine — and quite possibly, his rule. The second leaves him with an immediate loss of face, but a stronger chance of sustaining the occupation of smaller parts of Ukraine.
   
 
 Read Nick Paton Walsh’s complete analysis here. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Russian deputy PM: Freight train traffic has resumed on bridge and passenger trains are set to leave overnight 
 
            From CNN's Mariya Knight
         
 
 
 
 
      Freight trains are moving again on the Crimean bridge following an  explosion early Saturday , and 12 passenger trains should pass through the railway line overnight, according to Russia’s Deputy Prime Minister Marat Khusnullin.
   
 
      Khusnullin also said that so far, one lane of car traffic is moving on the bridge, and the goal is to open two lanes to traffic by morning.  
   
 
	“We have visually inspected the Crimean bridge, you already know that one lane of traffic has been launched, the task is to prepare everything overnight and tomorrow launch traffic in two lanes,” Khusnullin told Crimean media. 
 
 
      While Russian officials said that a limited amount of car traffic had resumed on the undamaged sections, trucks were told to take ferries across the Kerch Strait, state media reported.
   
 
      The Russian Ministry of Transport announced that trains have permission to run on the Crimean bridge, and the first test train run on the railway track was successful. 
   
 
      The Telegram channel of the Federal State Unitary Enterprise Crimean Railway said that after the first stage of repairs to the bridge, a train with 15 cars passed through it. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It's nighttime in Kyiv. Here's what you need to know 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      An  explosion on a bridge linking Russia with Crimea  dealt a strategic and symbolic blow to Russian President Vladimir Putin’s war effort. Meanwhile, more shelling near the Zaporizhzhia power plant renewed fears of a possible nuclear accident.
   
 
      If you’re just joining us, here’s the latest:
   
 
 A blast on the Crimean bridge:  A huge explosion severely damaged  the only bridge  connecting annexed Crimea to the Russian mainland, causing parts of Europe’s longest bridge to collapse. At least three people were  were killed , according to Russian officials. 
 Ukrainian leaders celebrate:  While stopping short of claiming responsibility, high-ranking Ukrainian officials publicly celebrated the bridge explosion. Ukraine’s secretary of the National Security and Defense Council posted a  taunting birthday message for Putin  and the  postal service announced stamps  commemorating the blast. In Kyiv, residents  posed for selfies  in front of a billboard depicting the burning bridge. 
 Russia restores some travel on the bridge:  Russian officials rushed to investigate the explosion and restore partial service on the bridge’s parallel rail and roadway structures. By evening,  limited car traffic resumed  on undamaged parts of the bridge and  train service had restarted . The blast disrupted major transport links, however, and Russian officials planned to use ferries for trucks. The Kremlin said Putin has signed a decree strengthening the bridge’s defenses, but provided few other details. 
 Power plant knocked off power grid:  The nuclear plant in Zaporizhzhia is  once again running on emergency diesel generators  after renewed Russian shelling damaged and disconnected the facility’s connection to the Ukrainian power grid. The shelling sparked condemnation from the UN nuclear watchdog and the Ukrainian energy minister, who  warned of a potential nuclear accident . 
 Who controls the plant?  While Putin  signed a decree  that puts the power plant under Russian state control as part of the annexation of four Ukrainian regions, Western allies reject the move as illegal under international law. Ukraine’s  military claims  that plant employees are being pressured to sign employment contracts with Russia’s nuclear energy agency. The EU’s top diplomat  reiterated Saturday  that Russia’s claim to the plant is “legally null and void.”  
 
 
 Here are the current frontlines and the location of the Kerch Strait bridge connecting Russia to Crimea: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Germany announces more weapons deliveries for Ukraine and says NATO needs to fill “gaps in defense” 
 
            From CNN’s Xiaofei Xu in Paris and Claudia Otto in Berlin
         
 
 
 
 
      NATO needs to work on strengthening its defense, German Defense Minister Christine Lambrecht said Saturday.
   
 
      “We live in serious times, and in such times, it is also important to know where we have gaps in defense. The air defense is one such area where it is urgent to act,” Lambrecht said while visiting German troops deployed in Lithuania.
   
 
      Germany also announced more weapon deliveries for Ukraine, including the IRIS-T air defense system, and a total of 100 tanks from Greece and Slovakia.
   
 
      Facing an increased security threat, Germany will also create a new armored infantry brigade that could be quickly deployed to Lithuania in times of need, Lambrecht added.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Train service on Kerch Strait bridge has been restored, operator says  
 
            From CNN's Katharina Krebs
         
 
 
 
 
      Train service on the Crimean bridge was restored Saturday evening as routes from the cities of Simferopol and Sevastopol depart to Moscow, according to a statement published by the operator of the passenger train service. 
   
 
      The Russian Grand Service Express carrier company said Saturday that the “double-decker train No. 28 Simferopol-Moscow left the capital of Crimea today at 17:10 according to the schedule. Train No. 8 Sevastopol-St. Petersburg left Sevastopol at 17:15.”
   
 
      The structure has separate infrastructure for its rail and roadway bridges, which  run parallel to one another .
   
 
      Car traffic on the undamaged part of the road bridge has also resumed, according to the Russian-appointed head of Crimea.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Car traffic resumes on part of Crimean bridge, Russian official says 
 
            From CNN's Katharina Krebs and Tim Lister 
         
 
 
 
 
      Car traffic on the undamaged part of the Crimean bridge has resumed, said the Russian-appointed head of Crimea, Sergey Aksenov, in a statement on his Telegram channel on Saturday.
   
 
	“At the moment, traffic is open to cars and buses with a full inspection procedure. We ask truck drivers to plan their route using the Kerch ferry crossing. The Kerch-2 ferry will begin to sail across the strait in two hours,” he said. 
 
 
      Social media video reviewed by CNN indicates that the westbound lanes on the road bridge were severed, but eastbound lanes appear intact. 
   
 
      Cars have begun to pass over the Crimean bridge from Taman on the Russian mainland toward the Crimean peninsula en route to the city of Kerch, Russian state media RIA Novosti reported on Saturday.
   
 
      Russian state media RIA Novosti reported Saturday that the Minister of Transport of the Crimean Republic Nikolai Lukashenko said ships with a capacity of 100 people will be launched to take passengers between Crimea and Russia’s Krasnodar Territory as an alternate method of transport. 
   
 
      According to Aksenov, railway communication on the bridge is set to be renewed by the end of the day.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Forces from self-declared Donetsk People's Republic advance west of main city, separatist authorities say 
 
            From CNN's Katharina Krebs
         
 
 
 
 
      The pro-Russian militia of the self-declared Donetsk People’s Republic said its units are carrying out an offensive to the west of the city of Donetsk, advancing into the village of Pervomaiskoye.
   
 
      The area — near the city’s now defunct and destroyed airport — has seen constant fighting for several months.
   
 
      The DPR militia said in a statement on its Telegram channel Saturday that its units “continue their successful advance and are cleaning up the village of Pervomaiskoye. The actions of the assault groups are supported by artillery, the fire of which is adjusted using unmanned aerial vehicles.”
   
 
      The militia also published a video purporting to show its progress toward taking the village.
   
 
      Ukraine’s military has said that its forces have resisted several attempts to capture Pervomaiskoye this week.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EU condemns Putin's attempted seizure of Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant after declaring annexation of regions 
 
            From CNN's Sharon Braithwaite
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in Ukraine, on September 11.  
 (Stringer/AFP/Getty Images) 
 
 
 
      The European Union “condemns in the strongest possible terms” Russia’s attempted seizure of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant and the declared  annexation of four Ukraine regions , the EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said Saturday.
   
 
      Russian President Vladimir Putin  signed a decree  that puts the plant under Russian state control and amends the country’s constitution by admitting new regions into Russia.
   
 
	The EU “does not recognise and strongly condemns Russia’s illegal annexation of Ukraine’s Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhzhia and Kherson regions. Consequently, the decree on the seizure of the ZNPP is illegal, and legally null and void,” Borrell said in a  statement .
 
 
      Borrell urged Russia to “fully withdraw its military forces and equipment and hand back control of the NPP to its rightful owner, Ukraine.”
   
 
      The EU’s top diplomat also stressed that a “reinforced” presence by the  UN’s nuclear watchdog  at the site and “its unhindered access to the plant are urgently needed in the interest of the security of Europe as a whole.”  
   
 
      The power plant  lost all external power sources  Saturday due to renewed shelling and is now relying on emergency diesel generators, the International Atomic Energy Agency and Ukraine’s nuclear operator Energoatom said.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ukraine to issue stamps commemorating Crimean bridge explosion 
 
            From CNN’s Xiaofei Xu and Olga Voitovych 
         
 
 
 
 
      The Ukrainian Postal Service will issue new stamps that feature the damaged Kerch Strait bridge, which connected Crimea to Russia, its CEO announced on Saturday.
   
 
      “I will not wish you a good day, because it is already wonderful. The Kerch bridge is done,” Ukrposhta head Igor Smelyansky said. 
   
 
      The stamp will feature two figures who resemble Hollywood stars Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet in their iconic pose from the 1997 film “Titanic.” 
   
 
 
 Given today‘s news,  @ukrposhta  is issuing stamp “Crimean Bridge - Done” and envelop with Crimea breaking handcuffs with russia. Coming soon online and in our stores  @OlKubrakov   pic.twitter.com/xF2Iew3Zeq — Igor Smelyansky (@smelyansky_igor)  October 8, 2022 
 
 
 
 
      There is also an envelope with an image of Crimea breaking handcuffs with Russia in the images shared by Smelyansky.
   
 
      The price of the stamp will be 18 Ukrainian hryvnia ($0.48) each, and Kyiv plans to print 7 million copies for circulation, according to Smelyansky.
   
 
 Some context:  Beyond being  the only bridge  connecting annexed Crimea to the Russian mainland, the structure had  major symbolic significance  for Russian President Vladimir Putin’s objective to take over Ukraine and bind it to Russia forever.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 UN nuclear watchdog condemns renewed shelling that knocked Zaporizhzhia plant off power grid 
 
            From CNN's Sharon Braithwaite
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Rafael Grossi holds a press conference during his visit to Kyiv, Ukraine, on October 6.  
 (Kyodo News/Getty Images) 
 
 
 
      The UN’s nuclear watchdog condemned new shelling near Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, which just disconnected the plant from Ukraine’s power grid, according to its operator.
   
 
      The resumed shelling is “tremendously irresponsible,” International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Rafael Grossi said Saturday in a  press release. 
 
 
      The last power line connecting the plant to Ukraine’s power grid  was damaged and disconnected Saturday  due to attacks by Russian forces, according to the Ukrainian nuclear operator Energoatom. The plant is now relying on diesel generators.
   
 
      “The resumption of shelling, hitting the plant’s sole source of external power, is tremendously irresponsible. The Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant must be protected,” Grossi said on Saturday. 
   
 
	“All the plant’s safety systems continue to receive power and are operating normally, the IAEA experts were informed by senior Ukrainian operating staff at the site,” he added in the release.
 
 
      “Although the six reactors are in cold shutdown, they still require electricity for vital nuclear safety and security functions. The plant’s diesel generators each have sufficient fuel for at least ten days. ZNPP engineers have begun work to repair the damaged 750 kV power line,” according to the release.
   
 
      Grossi stressed that the plant “must be protected” and added that he will “soon travel to the Russian Federation, and then return to Ukraine, to agree on a nuclear safety and security protection zone around the plant. This is an absolute and urgent imperative.”
   
 
 What Russian officials say : The plant can be put back into operation, said Vladimir Rogov, who is a senior pro-Russian official in the regional Zaporizhzhia government. 
   
 
      “Now the nuclear power plant has been switched back to the emergency mode of operation. The last power line that connected it with the right bank, with the territories controlled by [Ukrainian President Volodymyr] Zelensky’s regime, has been cut. For now, the nuclear power plant can only be powered by diesel generators, and this is an unusual means,” Rogov said while speaking to the pro-Kremlin “Soloviev Live” show on Saturday. 
   
 
      “We have every possibility to restore the nuclear power plant and put it into operation,” he added. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Surveillance video captures the explosion that rocked Crimean bridge 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Video Ad Feedback 
 
 
 
 
 03:37 
 
 
 
 
 
      Surveillance video from cameras on the Kerch Strait bridge shows the moment a large explosion rocked the roadway, disabling  the only bridge  connecting annexed Crimea to the Russian mainland.
   
 
      CNN’s Fred Pleitgen reports that top Russian officials have already blamed the attack on Ukraine, which has not formally taken credit for the blast — though government and military officials have posted  several gloating messages  online.
   
 
      In Kyiv today, Ukrainians stopped to pose for a selfie in front of a billboard depicting the burning bridge.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Analysis: What the Kerch Strait bridge explosion means for Putin and his war effort 
 
            Analysis from Jill Dougherty
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Black smoke billows from a fire on the Kerch bridge on October 8.  
 (AFP/Getty Images) 
 
 
 
      The explosion on Russia’s bridge to Crimea not only strikes a blow against Russia’s military effort in Ukraine, it’s also a psychological blow to Moscow and a major propaganda victory for Ukraine. 
   
 
      Russia began constructing the enormous 19-kilometer (about 12-mile) bridge over the Kerch Strait, spending  an estimated $3.7 billion , after Moscow illegally  annexed Ukraine’s Crimean Peninsula  in 2014. It was the physical expression of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s objective to take over Ukraine and bind it to Russia forever. The day it opened, he led a triumphant convoy over the bridge, driving a truck festooned with flags. 
   
 
      Russia’s propaganda industry went into overdrive, even producing  a romantic comedy about the bridge  called “The Crimean Bridge, Made with Love,” a rom-com about two guys working on building the bridge pursuing the same cute archaeology student. The screenplay was written by Margarita Simonyan, the head of Russia’s main international propaganda TV channel RT.
   
 
	The explosion on the Crimean bridge early Saturday was hardly extinguished before the trolling — a major weapon in this war — began. 
 
 
      The attack took place the day after Putin turned 70, and Ukraine’s Secretary of the National Security and Defense Council Oleksiy Danilov published video of the bridge in flames, with a huge section of the roadway collapsing into the water, alongside a  parallel video of Marilyn Monroe  singing “Happy Birthday, Mister President.” Others online compared the bridge attack to Ukraine’s April  sinking of the Russian Navy’s warship the Moskva .
   
 
      Putin’s government scrambled to insist that the damage was under control and would be repaired quickly. The state news agency TASS avoided the word “attack,” reporting that a team of 380 responders, along with 90 pieces of equipment, was dispatched to “eliminate the consequences of the emergency” on the bridge. The Russian Transport Ministry said the railway section of the bridge, vital for bring troops and equipment for the war effort, would be restored by Saturday evening. Russia’s Investigative Committee immediately launched  a criminal investigation .
   
 
      Online, Ukraine was triumphant about striking such a key Russian military and symbolic objective. And Ukrainian presidential aide Mykhailo Podolyak warned there could be more attacks ahead in a tweet, saying “everything occupied by Russia must be expelled.” 
   
 
 
 Crimea, the bridge, the beginning. Everything illegal must be destroyed, everything stolen must be returned to Ukraine, everything occupied by Russia must be expelled.  pic.twitter.com/yUiSwOLlDP — Михайло Подоляк (@Podolyak_M)  October 8, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Russian defense minister appoints new commander for Ukraine operations, according to state media 
 
            From Darya Tarasova and Eyad Turki
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sergey Surovikin. 
  (Russian Defence Ministry/Zuma Wire) 
 
 
 
      The Russian Defense Ministry has announced the appointment of a new commander for what it calls its “special military operation” in Ukraine, according to Russian state media.
   
 
      The ministry said that Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu has approved the appointment of Gen. Sergey Surovikin as commander of Russia’s “Joint Grouping of Forces” in Ukraine. 
   
 
      Russian state news agency TASS said the ministry’s spokesman, Igor Konashenkov, made the announcement Saturday.
   
 
 Who is Surovikin?  The appointment for Surovikin, who turns 55 on Oct. 11, is the latest promotion in a military career that began in 1983. He’s served in several conflicts and faced sanctions by the European Union.
   
 
      Surovikin first saw service in Afghanistan before commanding a unit in the Second Chechen War. He has also served as head of the Main Operational Directorate of the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces.
   
 
      He commanded several motorized rifle divisions and was instrumental in Russia’s operations in Syria, when Russian combat aircraft caused widespread devastation in rebel-held areas. In 2017, he was appointed commander in chief of the Russian Aerospace Forces and was promoted to be an Army general last year. 
   
 
      While in Syria, he was awarded the title of Hero of the Russian Federation.
   
 
      He was sanctioned by the European Union in February this year in his capacity as head of the Aerospace Forces during the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Russia to resupply troops in southern Ukraine by sea and land corridor following bridge explosion 
 
            From CNN's Darya Tarasova
         
 
 
 
 
      Russian troops in southern Ukraine will be resupplied by sea and land corridor, following Saturday’s explosion on the Kerch bridge, the country’s Ministry of Defense said.
   
 
 Strategic importance:  The Russian military has used the bridge extensively to resupply its forces in Kherson and Zaporizhzhia. It’s unclear how long the road and rail bridges across the Kerch Strait will be out of service.
   
 
      The Ministry said on its Telegram channel: “The provision of the Russian group of troops involved in the special military operation in the Nikolaev-Krivoy Rog and Zaporozhye [Ukrainian: Mykolaiv - Kryvyi Rih - Zaporizhzhia] operational directions is carried out continuously in full along the land corridor and partially by sea transport.”
   
 
 Ukraine recaptures territory in south:  Kyiv is successfully pushing ahead in its campaign to retake parts of southern and eastern Ukraine that Russia captured in the initial weeks of the war.
   
 
      The Ukrainian  military has recaptured 2,400 square kilometers of territory  in Kherson region in the south of the country “since the beginning of the full-scale war,” a senior Ukrainian official said Friday.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What we know about the blast on the Kerch bridge 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A helicopter drops water to extinguish fire on the Kerch bridge in Crimea on October 8.  
 (Stringer/Reuters) 
 
 
 
      In a major blow for Russia, at least one explosion has severely damaged the Kerch bridge connecting the  annexed Crimean peninsula  with the  Russian  Federation.
   
 
      The explosion early Saturday caused parts of Europe’s longest bridge to collapse, according to images and video from the scene.
   
 
      The exact cause of the explosion is unclear. Russian officials said a fuel truck exploded, but two spans of the road crossing in the direction of Crimea appear to have collapsed. A subsequent fire engulfed a train of fuel trucks on a separate part of the bridge.
   
 
      Images of the Kerch bridge posted on social media appear to show a portion of the roadway of the vehicle and rail bridge had fallen into the waters below it. Flames could be seen burning from rail cars above. 
   
 
 Three dead:  Russia’s Investigative Committee says that preliminary information indicates three people were killed in the explosion.
   
 
 Why is the bridge important?  The bridge spans the Kerch Strait, which connects the Black Sea to the Sea of Azov, on which sit key Ukrainian ports, including Mariupol. For Russia, the  bridge symbolizes  the physical “reunification” of Crimea with the Russian mainland. The bridge carries much of Crimea’s needs – such as fuel and goods – and has been used regularly to supply weapons and fuel to Russian forces.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The aftermath:  Major transport links between mainland Russia and the annexed peninsula of Crimea — including buses and trains —  were suspended , following an explosion on Kerch bridge. Weather conditions in the Kerch Strait are hindering Russia’s plans to use ferries to reach Crimea from Krasnodar, according to Russian state media.
   
 
 What has Ukraine said?  Ukrainian officials have started responding to the fire without directly acknowledging that Ukraine was responsible for the explosion. Among the responses, the Navy of the Armed Forces of Ukraine posted on Facebook, “Air defense of the Russian Federation, are you sleeping?” alongside a video showing a section of the bridge’s road that had been completely destroyed. 
   
 
      In a brief post on its official Twitter account, the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense reacted to the explosion, saying: “The guided missile cruiser Moskva and the Kerch Bridge – two notorious symbols of Russian power in Ukrainian Crimea – have gone down. What’s next in line, Russkies?”
   
 
 What is Russia’s response?  Russian President Vladimir Putin immediately ordered a “government commission” to examine the Kerch Bridge “emergency” in Crimea, Russian state media TASS reported, adding that the heads of Russia’s Ministry of Emergency Situations and the Ministry of Transport are now at the scene of the incident.
   
 
      Russian officials suggest that the explosion was caused by a truck blowing up on the road bridge.
   
 
      The spokeswoman for the Russian Investigative committee, Svetlana Petrenko, said the committee “has opened a criminal case about the incident at the Crimean Bridge. According to preliminary information, this morning a truck was blown up on the automobile part of the Crimean Bridge from the Taman Peninsula [the westbound lanes of the bridge], which led to the ignition of seven fuel tanks of a train travelling toward the Crimean Peninsula.”
   
 
      “As a result, two car lanes of the bridge partially collapsed.”
   
 
      The Committee also expanded on its earlier statement that a truck on the bridge had blown up.
   
 
      According to Russia’s Investigative Committee, the owner of the truck is resident of the Krasnodar Krai, and investigative actions have been launched at his place of residence. The route of movement of the vehicle and the relevant documentation are being studied, the committee added.
   
 
      CNN is unable to verify the Russian explanation for the explosion.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Three fuel tanks damaged in Donetsk shelling, Russian officials say 
 
            From Olga Voitovych and Zayn Nabbi
         
 
 
 
 
      Fire has damaged three fuel tanks in Ilovaisk in the Russian-occupied Donetsk   region, according to a  statement  by the Russian Ministry of Emergency Situations, following reports by Ukrainian officials that a cargo train was hit by a “powerful explosion.” 
   
 
      The Russian Ministry of Emergency Situations posted photos and  video  on its Telegram account showing firefighters dousing the fire at the Ilovaisk railway station on Saturday, and said the fire was a result of shelling by “Ukrainian militants.” 
   
 
 What happened?  A cargo train in Ilovaisk in the Russian-occupied  Donetsk  region was hit by a “powerful explosion” Saturday morning local time, according to the adviser to the Mariupol Mayor Petro Andrushenko.
   
 
	“Not only Crimea. Not only fuel tanks. There is also a cargo train in Ilovaisk. Locals report a rather powerful explosion and subsequent detonation at night. The occupiers now have big problems with supplies from both sides,” Andrushenko said, referring to the explosion involving a tanker on the Kerch bridge that links Russia’s Krasnodar region with the Russian-annexed Crimean peninsula.
 
 
      Pro-Russian authorities in the self-declared Donetsk People’s Republic confirmed the incident, releasing video Saturday showing the fire’s aftermath at a local railway station. It is unclear yet if there were casualties in the blast.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 At least three killed in Kerch bridge explosion 
 
            From CNN's Olga Voitovych
         
 
 
 
 
      At least three people were killed in the explosion on the Kerch bridge early Saturday, according to Russia’s Investigative Committee, citing preliminary information.
   
 
      In a statement on its Telegram channel, the Committee said: “According to preliminary information, three people died as a result of the incident. These are, presumably, the passengers of a car that was next to the blown-up truck.
   
 
      “Currently, the bodies of two victims have already been taken from the water – a man and a woman, their identities are being established.”
   
 
      The Committee also expanded on its earlier statement that a truck on the bridge had blown up.
   
 
      “The investigators of the Russian Investigative Committee also established the data of the truck and its owner. This is a resident of the Krasnodar Krai, investigative actions have been launched at his place of residence. The route of movement of the vehicle and the relevant documentation are being studied.”
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Russian officials say road truck was "blown up" on Kerch bridge 
 
            From CNN's Tim Lister, Eyad Turki and Daria Tarasova
         
 
 
 
 
      Russian officials suggest that the explosion on the Kerch road and rail crossing between Russia and annexed Crimea was caused by a truck blowing up on the road bridge.
   
 
      The spokeswoman for the Russian Investigative committee, Svetlana Petrenko, said the committee “has opened a criminal case about the incident at the Crimean Bridge. According to preliminary information, this morning a truck was blown up on the automobile part of the Crimean Bridge from the Taman Peninsula [the westbound lanes of the bridge], which led to the ignition of seven fuel tanks of a train travelling toward the Crimean Peninsula.”
   
 
      “As a result, two car lanes of the bridge partially collapsed.”
   
 
      CNN is unable to verify the Russian explanation for the explosion. Ukraine has not acknowledged that its armed forces were responsible for the explosion.
   
 
      Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova condemned the favorable response among Ukrainian officials to the explosion, saying: “The reaction of the Kyiv regime to the destruction of civilian infrastructure testifies to its terrorist nature.”
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 There's no change in US nuclear posture, sources say, despite Biden's "Armageddon" warning on Putin’s threats 
 
            From CNN's Jeremy Diamond
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 US President Joe Biden and Russian President Vladimir Putin.  
 (Getty Images) 
 
 
 
      After US President Joe Biden  warned that the world faces  the highest prospect of nuclear war in 60 years, a senior administration official says  there has been no shift  in US nuclear posture. 
   
 
	“We haven’t seen any indication of activity [from Russia] that would cause us to change our own nuclear deterrent posture,” the senior official said, adding that the US continues to monitor Russian military movements for any change in its nuclear stance.
 
 
      While this official would not go so far as Biden in saying that the world faces the prospect of nuclear crisis for the first time since the 1960s, the official said that “the stakes are clearly higher right now” as a result of a string of military setbacks Russia is facing in Ukraine.
   
 
      The official said Biden was speaking “frankly” based on Russian President  Vladimir Putin’s  “irresponsible and reckless” rhetoric, but not based on any new information about Russia’s nuclear posture.
   
 
 What Biden said Thursday night:  During a Democratic fundraiser in New York, Biden delivered a stark warning about the dangers behind  Putin’s nuclear threats  as Moscow continues to face military setbacks in Ukraine.
   
 
      “First time since the Cuban missile crisis, we have a direct threat of the use (of a) nuclear weapon if in fact things continue down the path they are going,” Biden warned. He added: “I don’t think there’s any such thing as the ability to easily (use) a tactical nuclear weapon and not end up with Armageddon.”
   
 
      It was striking for the President to speak so candidly, particularly at a fundraiser, while his aides from the National Security Council to the State Department to the Pentagon have spoken in much more measured terms,  saying they take the threats seriously but don’t see movement on them from the Kremlin. 
 
 
 CNN’s Sam Fossum, Kaitlan Collins and Paul LeBlanc contributed reporting to this post.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Weather conditions are prohibiting Russian ferries from reaching Crimea, further threatening transport links 
 
            From CNN's Niamh Kennedy and Kostan Nechyporenko
         
 
 
 
 
      Weather conditions in the Kerch Strait are hindering Russia’s plans to use ferries to reach Crimea from Krasnodar, according to Russian state media.
   
 
      “Weather conditions do not allow the launch of a ferry crossing from Crimea on October 8,” TASS said Saturday, citing “authorities.”
   
 
      Earlier Saturday, major transport links between mainland Russia and the annexed peninsula of Crimea – including buses and trains –  were suspended , following an explosion on Kerch bridge.
   
 
      Prior to the weather warning, authorities had planned to use “at least four or five ferries” to organize communication between Crimea and Krasnodar according to TASS.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cargo train in Russian-occupied Donetsk region hit by “powerful explosion,” says Ukrainian official  
 
            From CNN’s Kostan Nechyporenko and Teele Rebane
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A cargo train in Ilovaisk in the Russian-occupied Donetsk region was hit by a “powerful explosion” on October 8.   
 (Press Service of the Ministry of Emergency Situations of the DPR) 
 
 
 
      A cargo train in Ilovaisk in the Russian-occupied  Donetsk  region was hit by a “powerful explosion” Saturday morning local time, according to the adviser to the Mariupol Mayor Petro Andrushenko.
   
 
	“Not only Crimea. Not only fuel tanks. There is also a cargo train in Ilovaisk. Locals report a rather powerful explosion and subsequent detonation at night. The occupiers now have big problems with supplies from both sides,” Andrushenko said, referring to the explosion involving a tanker on the Kerch bridge that links Russia’s Krasnodar region with the Russian-annexed Crimean peninsula.
 
 
      Pro-Russian authorities in the self-declared republic of Donetsk confirmed the incident, releasing video Saturday showing the fire’s aftermath at a local railway station. It is unclear yet if there were casualties in the blast.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ukrainian Energy Minister warns of possible nuclear accident at Zaporizhzhia as Russian shelling continues 
 
            From CNN's Xiaofei Xu and Olga Voitovych
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ukrainian’s Energy Minister Herman Halushchenko has repeated warnings about a disaster at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant. 
 (Thierry Monasse/Getty Images) 
 
 
 
      Ukraine’s Energy Minister Herman Halushchenko reiterated warnings that a disaster at the  Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant  could be on the horizon after it was once again disconnected from Ukraine’s main grid on Saturday.
   
 
	“Now only the professionalism of Ukrainian nuclear workers is a fuse against a possible nuclear accident,” Halushchenko wrote in a Facebook post.
 
 
 Some background:  The Zaporizhzhia plant has been subject to intense scrutiny since its occupation shortly after Russia’s invasion in late February. Intense shelling near the facility  this summer  sparked concerns of a nuclear accident, prompting the International Atomic Energy Agency  to send a team there . The plant has been disconnected from Ukraine’s power grid on several occasions in recent months due to shelling, according to Ukrainian authorities.
   
 
      The plant sits in the Russian-occupied part of the Zaporizhzhia region and is the largest in Europe. It has been held by Russian forces for more than seven months but is operated by its Ukrainian staff. 
   
 
      The head of the UN’s nuclear watchdog, Rafael Grossi, was in Kyiv on Thursday to discuss his calls to establish a nuclear safety zone around the plant “as soon as possible,” the IAEA said in a statement. Grossi will also visit Russia in the coming days.
   
 
      Grossi said at a news conference that it’s still unclear what the “practical consequences” were of Russia’s decision to seize the plant, but he would be discussing those matters in high-level meetings in Moscow. He also said that the IAEA considers the facility Ukrainian.
   
 
 Power line damaged:  The last power line connecting the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant to Ukraine’s power grid was damaged and disconnected due to shelling from Russian forces, Ukraine’s nuclear operator Energoatom reported earlier Saturday.
   
 
      The powerplant is now relying on diesel generators, which have capacity to provide the plant with electricity for 10 days, according to Energoatom.
   
 
      “The civilized world has already given a clear assessment of Russia’s actions, but the nuclear terrorist continues its blackmail. And they may only be stopped by tough sanctions, primarily against the nuclear industry,” Halushchenko said.
   
 
      CNN cannot independently verify Halushchenko’s claims.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Major transport links between Crimea and mainland Russia suspended 
 
            From CNN's Niamh Kennedy and Tim Lister
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Traffic is seen on the bridge across the Kerch Strait linking Russia's Taman Peninsula with Crimea, in Kerch, Crimea on Wednesday, May 16, 2018. 
 (AP) 
 
 
 
      Major transport links between mainland Russia and the annexed peninsula of Crimea have been suspended, following an explosion on Kerch bridge on Saturday morning.
   
 
      State-owned rail company Russian Railways announced the suspension of all train ticket sales from Russia to Crimea, according to Russian state news agency TASS.
   
 
      All bus services from Crimea to mainland Russia were canceled on Saturday, TASS said.
   
 
      As authorities get to grips with the incident, at least four or five ferries will be used to organize communication between Crimea and the Russian mainland territory, Krasnodar Territory, TASS reported citing the maritime services of the Kuban.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ukrainian Defense Ministry says Kerch -"symbol of Russian power" - is down 
 
            From CNN's Tim Lister
         
 
 
 
 
      In a brief posting on its official Twitter account, the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense reacted to the explosion on the Kerch bridge, saying: “The guided missile cruiser Moskva and the Kerch Bridge – two notorious symbols of Russian power in Ukrainian Crimea – have gone down. What’s next in line, Russkies?”
   
 
 
 The guided missile cruiser Moskva and the Kerch Bridge – two notorious symbols of russian power in Ukrainian Crimea – have gone down.  What’s next in line, russkies? — Defense of Ukraine (@DefenceU)  October 8, 2022 
 
 
 
 
      The Moskva, a guided-missile cruiser and  the flagship of Russia’s Black Sea fleet sunk  on April 14, though  the cause remains disputed .
   
 
      Ukraine says it hit the Moskva with anti-ship cruise missiles, which sparked a fire that detonated stored ammunition. The Moskva was armed with a range of anti-ship and anti-aircraft missiles as well as torpedoes, naval guns and missile defense systems, meaning it would have had massive amounts of explosives aboard.
   
 
      Russia’s Defense Ministry, however, says a fire of unknown origin detonated the ammunition and the resulting explosions left the Moskva with structural damage. It says the warship then sank amid rough seas as it was being towed to a nearby port.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 “Air defense of the Russian Federation, are you sleeping?” Ukrainian officials respond to Kerch bridge explosion 
 
            From CNN's Olga Voitovych, Kostan Nechyporenko, Josh Pennington and Hannah Ritchie
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Surveillance footage from fixed cameras on the Kerch bridge shows the moment of a large explosion on the roadway, with some vehicles apparently caught in the blast on Saturday October 8. 
  (Telegram)  
 
 
 
      Ukrainian officials have started responding to a fire involving a tanker on Kerch bridge in the Russian-annexed Crimean Peninsula on Saturday, without directly acknowledging that Ukraine was responsible for the explosion.
   
 
      Vadym Denysenko, an adviser to the Interior Minister, said that “the Kerch bridge is a key logistical link that connects Russia with Crimea, and then with the Kherson region. As of now, the Russians have officially announced that the Kerch bridge is closed.”
   
 
	“Logistically, it is becoming increasingly difficult for them to supply everything possible, from food and fuel to the supply of weapons to Crimea and to the Kherson region. This is a big plus for us, Denysenko said on Ukrainian television. “A ferry crossing may partially solve the problem, but it depends on how many ferries they will launch and of what size. […] To do it all in one day or a few hours - it is almost unrealistic.”
 
 
 “Are you sleeping?”:  Meanwhile, the Navy of the Armed Forces of Ukraine responded to the blast on Facebook, posting, “Air defense of the Russian Federation, are you sleeping?” alongside a video showing a section of the bridge’s road that had been completely destroyed.
   
 
      David Arakhamia, the head of Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky’s party in parliament and a member of Kyiv’s negotiating team with Russia released a Telegram statement about the incident, saying: “Russian illegal construction is starting to collapse and catch fire. The reason is simple: if you build something explosive, sooner or later, it will explode. And this is just the beginning.” 
   
 
      Mykhailo Podoliak, who serves as an adviser to Zelensky echoed the sentiment. “Crimea, the bridge, the beginning. Everything illegal must be destroyed, everything stolen must be returned to Ukraine, everything occupied by Russia must be expelled,” Podoliak said.
   
 
 
 sick burn — Ukraine / Україна (@Ukraine)  October 8, 2022 
 
 
 
 
      The official Twitter page of the Ukrainian government responded to images, memes and video of the Krech bridge explosion with a two-word comment:
   
 
      “Sick burn.”
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Crimea authorities seek to reassure public on fuel and other supplies 
 
            From CNN's Kostan Nechyporenko
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A fire burns on the Kerch bridge Saturday morning October 8.  
 (Twitter) 
 
 
 
      Authorities in Russian-annexed Crimea have moved to reassure people that there will be no fuel shortages in the peninsula following the explosion on the Kerch bridge Saturday.
   
 
      The Governor of the city of Sevastopol, Mikhail Razvozhaev said on his Telegram channel: “Gasoline supply in Sevastopol for 40 days, there will be no shortage, so there is no need to stock up on fuel. The situation is the same with products.”
   
 
      Social media videos – purportedly shot Saturday – show long queues at some fuel stations in Crimea.
   
 
      At the same time, the Ministry of Industry in Crimes said that the sale of goods would be limited.
   
 
      “In order to avoid artificial excitement, the sale of groceries in Crimea is limited: in one hand up to 3 kilograms,” it said.
   
 
      Many of the products imported into Crimea come across the Kerch bridge.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 There's been a massive explosion on Crimea’s Kerch bridge. Here's the latest 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A fire burns on the Kerch bridge at sunrise in the Kerch Strait, Crimea on October 8. 
 (Stringer/Reuters) 
 
 
 
      A fuel tank exploded early Saturday  on Europe’s longest bridge , which links Russia to the annexed territory of Crimea, according to Russian state media RIA and social media footage.
   
 
      Images of the Kerch bridge posted on social media appear to show a portion of the roadway of the vehicle and rail bridge had fallen into the waters below it. Flames are seen burning from rail cars above.
   
 
      The source of the explosion remains unclear.
   
 
      The tanker was located on the 19-kilometer (11 mile) long bridge – strategically important because it links Russia’s Krasnodar region with the Russian-annexed Crimean Peninsula.
   
 
 Why is it important?  The bridge spans the Kerch Strait, which connects the Black Sea to the Sea of Azov, on which sit key Ukrainian ports, including Mariupol.
   
 
   The  Kerch bridge  is able to handle 40,000 cars a day and to move 14 million passengers and 13 million tons of cargo per year, state news agency RIA Novosti reported when the bridge opened in 2018. Its opening – according to Russia’s official narrative – claimed to mark the physical “reunification” of Crimea with the Russian mainland.
   
 
      After the bridge opened, the United States condemned its construction as illegal.
   
 
 What has Russia’s response been to the explosion?  Work is “underway to extinguish the fire,” the adviser to the Russian administration head of occupied Crimea, Oleg Kryunchkov, said in a Telegram post, adding that the bridge’s “shipping arches were not damaged.”
   
 
      An official in Russian-annexed Crimea blamed “Ukrainian vandals” for the explosion on Kerch bridge in a post on Telegram.
   
 
 
 
    Ukrainian vandals somehow managed to get their bloody paws on the Crimean bridge. And now they have something to be proud of, in 23 years of their economic activity, they did not manage to build anything deserving of interest in Crimea. But they did succeed in damaging the roadbed of the Russian bridge,” Chairman of the State Council of the Republic of Crimea Vladimir Konstantinov said. “Such is the whole essence of the Kiev regime and the Ukrainian state … Of course, the causes of the accident will be investigated, and the damage will be repaired swiftly,” he added.
   
 
 
 
 
      CNN cannot independently verify Konstantinov’s claim.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Over 500 civilian bodies have been found in territory recaptured by Ukraine, Kharkiv police say 
 
            From CNN's Jo Shelley, Olga Voitovych and Tim Lister
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A mass burial site after exhumation in Izum, Ukraine, on September 30.  
 (Maxym Marusenko/NurPhoto/AP) 
 
 
 
      The bodies of more than 500 civilians have been discovered in the territory in northeast Ukraine that has recently been retaken from Russian forces, according to Ukrainian police.
   
 
      Most of the remains — 447, according to Ukrainian forces —  were found at what was described as a mass burial site in the town of  Izium , which Ukrainian forces liberated from Russian occupation in early September. Russian troops had been using Izium as a launchpad for attacks southward into the Donetsk region. 
   
 
      As Ukrainian forces liberated more land in the northeast, new burial sites are being discovered.
   
 
	“We found the bodies of 534 civilians from the de-occupied territories,” said Serhii Bolvinov, the head of the investigative department of the regional police, 
 
 
       They included 226 women and 19 children, Bolvinov added.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ukraine says 2,400 square kilometers of territory has been liberated in the south since war began 
 
            From CNN's Julia Kesaieva
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A Ukrainian tank is seen near Kherson, Ukraine on October 7.  
 (Metin Aktas/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images) 
 
 
 
      The Ukrainian military has liberated 2,400 square kilometers (more than 926 square miles) of territory in the south “since the beginning of the full-scale war,” a senior Ukrainian official said Friday. 
   
 
      Almost all of that land has been recovered in the past two weeks as Ukraine has stepped up its counteroffensive in Kherson.
   
 
      Kyrylo Tymoshenko, deputy head of the president’s office, said the progress in Kherson includes:
   
 
 Six settlements that were liberated in the Kherson district, which is to the north of the city itself. 
 61 settlements that were recaptured in the region’s district of Beryslav 
 
 
      Meanwhile, the evacuation of civilians continued amid massive destruction to critical infrastructure in towns like Arkhanhelske, Vysokopillia and Osokorivka, all of which saw weeks of heavy fighting and indirect fire, Tymoshenko said, adding that de-mining was in progress.
   
 
      Ukrainian forces have been making steady  progress in Kherson  since beginning an offensive at the end of last month. In his Thursday night evening address, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Kyiv  has retaken  more than 500 square kilometers (about 193 square miles) of territory in the southern Kherson region since Oct. 1. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            Link Copied!
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ad Feedback 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ad Feedback 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ad Feedback 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Log In
       
 
 
 
      My Account 
 
 
 
 
 
          Settings
         
 
 
 
          Log Out
         
 
 
 
 
 Your CNN account 
 Log in to your CNN account 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Live TV
       
 
        Audio
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
        US
       
 
 
 
            Crime + Justice
           
 
 
 
            Energy + Environment
           
 
 
 
            Extreme Weather
           
 
 
 
            Space + Science
           
 
 
 
 
 
        World
       
 
 
 
            Africa
           
 
 
 
            Americas
           
 
 
 
            Asia
           
 
 
 
            Australia
           
 
 
 
            China
           
 
 
 
            Europe
           
 
 
 
            India
           
 
 
 
            Middle East
           
 
 
 
            United Kingdom
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Politics
       
 
 
 
            The Biden Presidency
           
 
 
 
            Facts First
           
 
 
 
            US Elections
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Business
       
 
 
 
            Markets
           
 
 
 
            Tech
           
 
 
 
            Media
           
 
 
 
            Success
           
 
 
 
            Perspectives
           
 
 
 
            Videos
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Opinion
       
 
 
 
            Political Op-Eds
           
 
 
 
            Social Commentary
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Health
       
 
 
 
            Life, But Better
           
 
 
 
            Fitness
           
 
 
 
            Food
           
 
 
 
            Sleep
           
 
 
 
            Mindfulness
           
 
 
 
            Relationships
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Entertainment
       
 
 
 
            Stars
           
 
 
 
            Screen
           
 
 
 
            Binge
           
 
 
 
            Culture
           
 
 
 
            Media
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Tech
       
 
 
 
            Innovate
           
 
 
 
            Gadget
           
 
 
 
            Foreseeable Future
           
 
 
 
            Mission: Ahead
           
 
 
 
            Upstarts
           
 
 
 
            Work Transformed
           
 
 
 
            Innovative Cities
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Style
       
 
 
 
            Arts
           
 
 
 
            Design
           
 
 
 
            Fashion
           
 
 
 
            Architecture
           
 
 
 
            Luxury
           
 
 
 
            Beauty
           
 
 
 
            Video
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Travel
       
 
 
 
            Destinations
           
 
 
 
            Food & Drink
           
 
 
 
            Stay
           
 
 
 
            News
           
 
 
 
            Videos
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Sports
       
 
 
 
            Pro Football
           
 
 
 
            College Football
           
 
 
 
            Basketball
           
 
 
 
            Baseball
           
 
 
 
            Soccer
           
 
 
 
            Olympics
           
 
 
 
            Hockey
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Videos
       
 
 
 
            Live TV
           
 
 
 
            Digital Studios
           
 
 
 
            CNN Films
           
 
 
 
            HLN
           
 
 
 
            TV Schedule
           
 
 
 
            TV Shows A-Z
           
 
 
 
            CNNVR
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Audio
       
 
 
 
 
 
        CNN Underscored
       
 
 
 
            Electronics
           
 
 
 
            Fashion
           
 
 
 
            Beauty
           
 
 
 
            Health & Fitness
           
 
 
 
            Home
           
 
 
 
            Reviews
           
 
 
 
            Deals
           
 
 
 
            Money
           
 
 
 
            Gifts
           
 
 
 
            Travel
           
 
 
 
            Outdoors
           
 
 
 
            Pets
           
 
 
 
            CNN Store
           
 
 
 
            Coupons
           
 
 
 
 
 
        Weather
       
 
 
 
            Climate
           
 
 
 
            Storm Tracker
           
 
 
 
            Wildfire Tracker
           
 
 
 
            Video
           
 
 
 
 
 
        More
       
 
 
 
            Photos
           
 
 
 
            Longform
           
 
 
 
            Investigations
           
 
 
 
            CNN Profiles
           
 
 
 
            CNN Leadership
           
 
 
 
            CNN Newsletters
           
 
 
 
            Work for CNN
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Audio
           
 
            Live TV
           
 
 
 Follow CNN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Log In
       
 
 
 
      My Account 
 
 
 
 
 
          Settings
         
 
 
 
          Log Out
         
 
 
 
 
 Your CNN account 
 Log in to your CNN account 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          Terms of Use
         
 
          Privacy Policy
         
 
 
 
          Ad Choices
         
 
          Accessibility & CC
         
 
          About
         
 
          Newsletters
         
 
          Transcripts
         
 
 © 2022 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.   CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
