
 
 
 
      Skip to main content
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Diplomatic Service of the European Union 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 About us 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 The European External Action Service (EEAS) is the European Union’s diplomatic service. Since 2011, the EEAS carries out the EU’s Common Foreign and Security Policy to promote peace, prosperity, security, and the interests of Europeans across the globe. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 About the European External Action Service 
 
   
 
 
 See also 
 
 Creation of the EEAS 
 Annual reports 
 Structure and Organisation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 High Representative / Vice President 
 
 
 The EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs shapes the standing of the European Union on the global stage. 
 
 
 
 
 See also 
 
 HR/VP Josep Borrell personal blog post 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The EU international roles 
 
 
 All over the world, the European External Action Service, in coordination with  the European Union institutions, addresses EU foreign policy priorities, including civilian and military planning and crisis response. 
 
 
 
 
 See also 
 
 Consular protection for EU citizens 
 Diplomatic corps 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EU special representatives 
 
 
 The European Union has Special Representatives in different countries and regions of the world. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Get in touch 
 
 
 Contact the European External Action Service, ask general questions on the European Union or get information on visiting the EEAS. 
 
 
 
 
 See also 
 
 Visit the EEAS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EU in the World 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 The EU maintains diplomatic relations with nearly all countries in the world and undertakes a range of actions with strategic partners, key international players, and emerging and developing powers.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EU Diplomatic Representations 
 
 
 The Diplomatic Representations play a vital role in representing the EU and its citizens around the globe and building networks and partnerships. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Select Diplomatic Representation 
 
 Afghanistan 
 Albania 
 African Union 
 Algeria 
 Angola 
 Argentina 
 Armenia 
 ASEAN 
 Australia 
 Azerbaijan 
 Bangladesh 
 Barbados, Eastern Caribbean States, OECS & CARICOM/CARIFORUM 
 Belarus 
 Benin 
 Bolivia 
 Bosnia and Herzegovina 
 Botswana 
 Brazil 
 Burkina Faso 
  Burundi 
 Cabo Verde 
 Cambodia 
 Cameroon 
 Canada 
 Central African Republic 
 Chile 
 China 
 Colombia 
 Congo (Brazzaville) 
 Costa Rica 
 Côte d'Ivoire 
 Council of Europe 
 Cuba 
 Djibouti 
 Dominican Republic 
 DR Congo (Kinshasa) 
 Ecuador 
 Egypt 
 El Salvador 
 Eritrea 
 Eswatini 
 Ethiopia 
 Fiji-Pacific 
 Gabon, Sao Tomé-and-Principe and ECCAS 
 Gambia 
 Georgia 
 Ghana 
 Guatemala 
 Guinea 
 Guinea-Bissau 
 Guyana, Suriname, & Aruba, Bonaire, Curacao, Saba, Saint Barthelemy, Sint Eustatius, Sint Maarten 
 Haiti 
 Honduras 
 Hong Kong & Macao 
 Iceland 
 India & Bhutan 
 Indonesia & Brunei Darussalam 
 Iraq 
 Israel 
 Jamaica, Belize, Turks, Caicos Islands, Bahamas & Cayman Islands 
 Japan 
 Jordan 
 Kazakhstan 
 Kenya 
 Kosovo* 
 Kuwait 
 Kyrgyz Republic 
 Lao PDR 
 Lebanon 
 Lesotho 
 Liberia 
 Libya 
 Madagascar and the Union of the Comoros 
 Malawi 
 Malaysia 
 Mali 
 Mauritania 
 Mauritius, Mayotte & Seychelles 
 Mexico 
 Moldova 
 Mongolia 
 Montenegro 
 Morocco 
 Mozambique 
 Myanmar (Burma) 
 Namibia 
 Nepal 
 New Zealand 
 Nicaragua 
 Niger 
 Nigeria 
 North Macedonia 
 Norway 
 Pakistan 
 Palestine (*) - Occupied Palestinian Territory, West Bank and Gaza Strip 
 Panama 
 Papua New Guinea 
 Paraguay 
 OECD&UNESCO in Paris & Principalities of Andorra and Monaco 
 Peru 
 Philippines 
 Qatar 
 Russia 
 Rwanda 
 Saudi Arabia, Oman & Bahrain 
 Senegal 
 Serbia 
 Sierra Leone 
 Singapore 
 Somalia 
 South Africa 
 South Korea 
 South Sudan 
 Sri Lanka & Maldives 
 Sudan 
 Switzerland and Liechtenstein 
 Syria 
 Taiwan 
 Tajikistan 
 Tanzania 
 Tchad 
 Thailand 
 Timor-Leste 
 Togo 
 Trinidad and Tobago 
 Tunisia 
 Turkey 
 Turkmenistan 
 Uganda 
 Ukraine 
 United Nations & other international organisations - Geneva 
 United Nations - New York 
 United Nations organisations in Rome, Holy See, Order of Malta, Republic of San Marino 
 United Arab Emirates 
 United Kingdom 
 United States of America 
 Uruguay 
 Uzbekistan 
 Venezuela 
 International Organisations in Vienna 
 Vietnam 
 World Trade Organization (WTO) 
 Yemen 
 Zambia and COMESA 
 Zimbabwe 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Military & civilian missions & operations 
 
 
 Since the first CSDP missions and operations were launched back in 2003, the EU has undertaken 36 overseas operations, using civilian and military missions and operations in several countries in Europe, Africa and Asia. As of today, there are 18 ongoing CSDP missions and operations, 11 of which are civilian, and 7 military. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Select mission & operation 
 
 EU NAVFOR Somalia 
 EU RACC Sahel 
 EUAM Iraq 
 EUAM RCA 
 EUAM Ukraine 
 EUBAM Libya 
 EUBAM Moldova and Ukraine 
  EUBAM Rafah 
 EUCAP Sahel Mali 
 EUCAP Sahel Niger 
 EUCAP Somalia 
 EUFOR Althea 
 EULEX Kosovo 
 EUMM Georgia 
 EUNAVFOR MED operation IRINI 
 EUPOL COPPS/Palestinian Territories 
 EUTM Mozambique 
 EUTM RCA 
 EUTM Somalia 
 EUTM-Mali 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Regions 
 
   
 
 
 See also 
 
 Africa 
 Asia 
 Central Asia 
 Eastern Europe 
 Latin America & the Caribbean 
 Middle East and North Africa (MENA) 
 North America 
 Overseas Countries and Territories (OCTs) 
 Pacific 
 Western Balkans 
 Western Europe 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Regional policies 
 
   
 
 
 See also 
 
 Black Sea Synergy 
 EU Arctic Policy 
 Eastern Partnership 
 EU Facilitated Dialogue: Belgrade-Pristina relations 
 European Neighbourhood Policy 
 Middle East Peace Process 
 Northern Dimension 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Election observation missions 
 
 
 Election observation missions (EOMs) provide a comprehensive, independent and impartial assessment of an electoral process according to international standards for democratic elections. The EU is a worldwide recognised credible actor in international election observation. Since 2000, the EU has deployed over 160 EOMs in more than 60 countries. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Selection Election Observation Missions 
 
 EOM Iraq 2021 
 EOM Kosovo 2021 
 EOM The Gambia 2021 
 EOM Venezuela 2021 
 EOM Zambia 2021 
 EOM Honduras 2021 
 EOM Colombia 2022 
 EOM Timor Leste 2022 
 EOM Lebanon 2022 
 EOM Kenya 2022 
 EOM Lesotho 2022 
 EOM São Tomé e Príncipe 2022 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Iran & JCPOA 
 
 
 Since 2006, the EU High Representative has led diplomatic efforts between the E3/EU+3 (China, France, Germany, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States) and Iran, which led to the conclusion of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action on Iran’s nuclear program (JCPOA) in Vienna on 14 July 2015. The JCPOA is designed to ensure that Iran’s nuclear programme will be exclusively peaceful and provides for the comprehensive lifting of UN, EU and US nuclear-related sanctions. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 DELEGATION HIGHLIGHTS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What we do 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 All over the world, the EU works to prevent and resolve conflicts, to support resilient democracies, to promote human rights and sustainable development, to fight climate change, and to contribute to a rules-based global order. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EU Security, Defence and Crisis Response 
 
 
 In an increasingly interconnected world, Europe’s security starts abroad. European citizens expect and deserve to live in a safe and stable environment. In the face of increased global instability, the EU needs to take more responsibility for its own security and increase its capacity to act autonomously. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Human Rights & Democracy  
 
 
 In a shifting geopolitical landscape, the EU has remained a strong defender of human rights. New geopolitical rivalries only serve to underline its role as a reliable and stable partner, and a champion of the rules-based international order. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Gender & Diversity 
 
 
 Gender equality and women’s empowerment, but also diversity in the broadest sense of the word, are political objectives and priorities of the EU in all of its internal and external policy.   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Climate, Environment & Energy  
 
 
 Climate change and environmental degradation are an existential threat to Europe and the world. The EU promotes the approach of the European Green Deal of a just transition towards sustainable, resource-efficient and climate neutral economies and energy systems. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Multilateral relations 
 
 
 In today’s world marked by major geopolitical and economic power shifts, multilateralism is still the most effective means to govern global relations in a way that benefits all. The EU stands committed to a renewed multilateralism fit for the 21st century. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Migration & Forced Displacement 
 
 
 Migration is a global phenomenon presenting a unique set of challenges while offering substantial benefits to countries of origin and destination as well as migrants. The EU works to ensure that migration takes place in a safe, regular and sustainable manner.  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 EU Enlargement & Neighbourhood 
 
 
 The EU prioritises development and stability in the wider region and neighbourhood, working in close partnership with its neighbours to the East and South and supporting the reforms required by countries that want to become EU members. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Humanitarian & Emergency response  
 
 
 The European Union together with its Member States is the world’s leading humanitarian donor.  New challenges, same principles , humanitarian aid is a key pillar of the EU’s external action and an important part of its ability to project its values globally.  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 International cooperation & partnership 
 
 
 The European Union, more than ever, needs to work closely with partners to face the global challenges and build together a safer, greener, more prosperous and equal world. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Cultural relations 
 
 
 Cultural diversity is one of the emblems of the EU and its Member States and a tool to strengthen cultural relations beyond our borders, to connect people worldwide, to share values, to improve international relations and to learn from each other’s practice.  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Tackling Disinformation, Foreign Information Manipulation & Interference 
 
 
 Since 2015, the EU has significantly improved its capacity to tackle Foreign Information Manipulation and Interference (FIMI), protecting the EU’s democratic processes, security and citizens. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Global Gateway 
 
 
 The Global Gateway is a new European strategy to boost smart, clean and secure links in digital, energy and transport sectors and to strengthen health, education and research systems across the world. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Digital Diplomacy 
 
 
 Digital technologies have brought new opportunities into the lives of people around the world. They have also become key competitive parameters that can shift the balance of power. The goal of EU Digital Diplomacy is to secure the EU global role in the digital world, to protect its strategic interests and to promote its dynamic, human-centric regulatory framework for an inclusive digital transformation. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Economic relations - Trade & sustainability 
 
 
 In its trade relations, the EU promotes a sustainable growth model as defined by the European Green Deal and the European Digital Strategy, which can help the recovery from the COVID-19 economic crisis. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 EU Sanctions 
 
 
 Restrictive measures, or sanctions, are one of the EU's tools to promote the objectives of the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP).  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Science Diplomacy 
 
 
 Science and technology play an increasing role in the geopolitical arena.  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Public Diplomacy 
 
 
 Building bridges between the European Union and the rest of the world 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Newsroom & resources 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Press materials 
 
 
 For media inquiries, please contact the  EEAS press team 
   
 Subscribe to our Press Alerts & Newsletters 
 
 
 
 
 See also 
 
 Press Releases 
 Declarations / Statements 
 Speeches / Remarks 
 Op-eds 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Stories 
 
   
 
 
 See also 
 
 Stories 
 HR/VP Josep Borrell blog 
 Blog Posts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Publications 
 
   
 
 
 See also 
 
 Factsheets 
 Documents 
 Reports 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Media gallery 
 
   
 
 
 See also 
 
 Videos 
 Photos 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Campaigns 
 
 
 Campaign pages are created around specific topic and actions. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Audiovisual & Streaming 
 
   
 
 
 See also 
 
 Europe by Satellite 
 Council of EU - Live 
 Council of EU - Newsroom 
 Europarl TV 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other newsrooms 
 
   
 
 
 See also 
 
 EU Newsroom 
 Other EU press release databases 
 European Council Press Releases 
 EU Press corner 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Document databases and Archives 
 
   
 
 
 See also 
 
 EEAS Archived Websites 
 EEAS Public register 
 Public register of Council documents 
 EC Historical Archives 
 INTPA documents library 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Opportunities 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 Job opportunities, grants and tenders at the EEAS, EU Delegations and Missions and Operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Vacancies 
 
 
 Looking for an exciting job in the field of external relations, foreign affairs and security? Find our vacancies 
 
 
 
 
 See also 
 
 Contract Agents 
 EU Delegation Programmes 
 Traineeships 
 CSDP missions 
 Junior Professionals in Delegations (JPD) Programme 
 EPSO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tenders 
 
 
 Interested in one of the tenders? See how to apply for an EEAS call for tenders. 
 
 
 
 
 See also 
 
 How to apply for an EEAS call for tenders  
 Useful links and documents for tenderers and contractors 
 Ex-post publicity of the annual lists of contracts 
 Official Journal of the European Union (TED) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Auction sales 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 Grants 
 
 
 Grants can be awarded as donations to third parties that are engaged in external aid activities. Grants are managed by EuropeAid (DEVCO) or DG Near, the EEAS does not manage any grant. 
 
 
 
 
 See also 
 
 General information 
 How to apply? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Projects 
 
 
 The EU support s  projects worldwide covering a range of sectors.  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Events 
 
 
 Every day, events are organised worldwide by the European Union Delegations and its partners.  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   English   Français 
 
 
 SEARCH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Breadcrumb 
 
 
 EEAS 
 
 
                  Russia: Statement by the High Representative Josep Borrell on the ZNPP latest decree
               
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Page language: 
   English 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    provide a CSS File with Type print for the PDF to render styles  
 
  PRINT 
 
 
 
 
 Russia: Statement by the High Representative Josep Borrell on the ZNPP latest decree 
 
 
 
  
08.10.2022
                                         EEAS Press Team 
 
 The European Union condemns in the strongest possible terms the decree of Russian President Putin on the illegal seizure of the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant (ZNPP) and the establishment of a government enterprise to that matter. The EU does not recognise and strongly condemns Russia’s illegal annexation of Ukraine’s Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhzhia and Kherson regions. Consequently, the decree on the seizure of the ZNPP is illegal, and legally null and void.  
 Russia must fully withdraw its military forces and equipment and hand back control of the NPP to its rightful owner, Ukraine. The seven indispensable pillars of nuclear safety and security as set out by the Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency must be fully adhered to and be respected. A reinforced IAEA presence at the site and its unhindered access to the plant are urgently needed in the interest of the security of Europe as a whole. A nuclear safety and security protection zone must be established immediately, without prejudice to Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. The EU strongly supports the efforts of the Director-General of the International Atomic Energy Agency to this end. 
 The EU remains unwavering in its support for Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally recognised borders, and demands that Russia immediately, completely and unconditionally withdraws all of its troops and military equipment from the entire territory of Ukraine. The European Union firmly stands with Ukraine and will continue to provide strong economic, military, social and financial support to Ukraine for as long as it takes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Back to top  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EUROPEAN UNION WEBSITES 
 
 
 European Union 
 

                  |
                               
 European Commission 
 

                  |
                               
 European Parliament 
 

                  |
                               
 European Council 
 

                  |
                               
 All EU Institutions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Contacts 
 
 
 Data protection 
 
 
 Privacy statements 
 
 
 Cookie policy 
 
 
 Europa analytics 
 
 
 Language policy 
 
 
 Legal notice 
 
 
 Accessibility 
 
 
 Login 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
