Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA International subscribe H HOLA LOG IN International Russian offensive in Ukraine Day 23 of the war in Ukraine: Counterattacks slowing down Russian advance Moscow’s military leaders are being forced to divert a large number of troops to defend their own supply lines, according to British intelligence reports Mariano Zafra Kiko Llaneras Daniele Grasso José A. Álvarez Luis Sevillano Pires Javier Galán 09 Mar 2022 - 13:50 Actualizado: 18 Mar 2022 - 11:22 UTC March 18 | Ukrainian counterattacks affecting Russian supply lines On Day 23 of the war, Russian troops did not make any significant gains on any front on Thursday. Ukrainian counterattacks, particularly in the Kyiv area, inflicted “heavy casualties” on the Kremlin’s forces, according to the Institute for the Study of War (ISW). Incessant Ukrainian counterattacks are forcing Russia to divert a large number of troops to defend their own supply lines, said the United Kingdom’s Defence Ministry in its daily update. “This is severely limiting Russia’s offensive potential.” Generated by ai2html v0.102.0 - 2022-03-18 12:00 ai file: EN_mapa_ataque_18marzo.ai Artboard: movil2 Active advance Earlier advance Russian control Besieged city City controlled by the Russians Recent bombings Recent bombings BELARUS RUSSIA Chernihiv Sumy Brovary Kyiv Lviv Kharkiv UKRAINE Dnipro Zaporizhzhia Krivoi Rog MOLD. Volnovaja Mykolaiv Melitopol Kherson Odessa Mariupol ROMANIA CRIMEA Black Sea Annexed by Russia in 2014 250 km Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. It does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: Institute for the Study of War and American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project (for advances and areas under control); UK intelligence (besieged cities); EL PAÍS and other sources (fighting and airstrikes). Artboard: tableta Active advance Earlier advance Russian control Besieged city City controlled by the Russians Recent fighting Recent bombings BELARUS RUSSIA Chernihiv Konotop Sumy Irpin POLAND Brovary Yitomir Kyiv Lviv Kharkiv UKRAINE Lugansk Dnipro Krivoi Rog Donbas Donetsk Zaporizhzhia Volnovaja MOLD. Mykolaiv Melitopol Kherson Mariupol Odessa Berdiansk ROMANIA Sea of Azov CRIMEA Annexed by Russia in 2014 250 km Black Sea Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. It does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: Institute for the Study of War and American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project (for advances and areas under control); UK intelligence (besieged cities); EL PAÍS and other sources (fighting and airstrikes). Artboard: escritorio Active advance Earlier advance Russian control Besieged city City controlled by the Russians Recent fighting Recent bombings BELARUS RUSSIA Kursk Chernihiv Konotop Sumy POLAND Irpin Belgorod Brovary Yitomir Kyiv Lviv Kharkiv UKRAINE Lugansk Dnipro Donbas Zaporizhzhia Krivoi Rog Donetsk Nuclear power plant Volnovaja Mykolaiv MOLD. Melitopol Odessa Kherson Mariupol Berdiansk ROMANIA Sea of Azov CRIMEA Annexed by Russia in 2014 250 km Black Sea Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. It does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: Institute for the Study of War and American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project (for advances and areas under control); UK intelligence (besieged cities); EL PAÍS and other sources (fighting and airstrikes). End ai2html - 2022-03-18 12:00 “Reluctance to maneuver cross-country, lack of control of the air and limited bridging capabilities are preventing Russia from effectively resupplying their forward troops with even basic essentials such as food and fuel,” added the report. Ukrainian forces continued to repel Russian efforts to encircle Kyiv and the southern city of Mykolaiv. But the cities of Kharkiv, Chernihov, Sumy and Mariupol are encircled and under constant shelling. In the west, the mayor of Lviv said that several missiles had struck near the airport before dawn on Friday. A plume of smoke could be seen in the area, reported EL PAÍS correspondent Luis de Vega . Lviv, a city of 700,000 residents, is located near the border with Poland and until now it had been considered a safe place for Ukrainians fleeing other parts of the country. In the south, some reserve forces of the Russian naval fleet that is stationed near the port city of Odessa were deployed to Mariupol in what appears to be an effort to support the ongoing assault there, said the ISW. In the east, Russia said on Thursday that separatist forces in the Donbas region captured several towns after making limited territorial gains. March 17 | The Russian invasion has stalled The Russian invasion of Ukraine has “largely stalled on all fronts,” according to the United Kingdom Defense Ministry’s latest intelligence report. Moscow’s forces have made minimal progress on land, sea and air in recent days and continue to suffer heavy losses, said the report. “Ukrainian resistance remains staunch and well coordinated. The vast majority of Ukrainian territory, including all major cities, remains in Ukrainian hands.” Russian troops failed to make any progress on any of their four fronts: the attempt to encircle the capital Kyiv, the assault on Kharkiv, the advance on Donetsk and the capture of Mariupol. There were also no significant gains in the push west from Kherson. Generated by ai2html v0.102.0 - 2022-03-17 12:21 ai file: EN_mapa_ataque_17marzo.ai Artboard: movil2 Active advance Earlier advance Russian control Besieged city City controlled by the Russians Recent bombings Recent bombings BELARUS RUSSIA Chernihiv Lutsk Sumy Brovary Kyiv Lviv Kharkiv Yavoriv UKRAINE Dnipro Ivano-Frankivsk Zaporizhzhia Krivoi Rog MOLD. Volnovaja Mykolaiv Melitopol Kherson Odessa Mariupol ROMANIA CRIMEA Black Sea Annexed by Russia in 2014 250 km Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. It does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: Institute for the Study of War and American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project (for advances and areas under control); UK intelligence (besieged cities); EL PAÍS and other sources (fighting and airstrikes). Artboard: tableta Active advance Earlier advance Russian control Besieged city City controlled by the Russians Recent fighting Recent bombings BELARUS RUSSIA Chernihiv Konotop Sumy Lutsk Irpin POLAND Brovary Yitomir Yavoriv Kyiv Kharkiv Lviv UKRAINE Ivano-Frankivsk Lugansk Dnipro Krivoi Rog Donbas Donetsk Zaporizhzhia Volnovaja MOLD. Mykolaiv Melitopol Kherson Mariupol Odessa Berdiansk ROMANIA Sea of Azov CRIMEA Annexed by Russia in 2014 250 km Black Sea Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. It does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: Institute for the Study of War and American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project (for advances and areas under control); UK intelligence (besieged cities); EL PAÍS and other sources (fighting and airstrikes). Artboard: escritorio Active advance Earlier advance Russian control Besieged city City controlled by the Russians Recent fighting Recent bombings BELARUS RUSSIA Kursk Chernihiv Konotop Sumy POLAND Lutsk Irpin Belgorod Brovary Yitomir Yavoriv Kyiv Lviv Kharkiv UKRAINE Ivano-Frankivsk Lugansk Dnipro Donbas Zaporizhzhia Krivoi Rog Donetsk Nuclear power plant Volnovaja Mykolaiv MOLD. Melitopol Odessa Kherson Mariupol Berdiansk ROMANIA Sea of Azov CRIMEA Annexed by Russia in 2014 250 km Black Sea Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. It does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: Institute for the Study of War and American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project (for advances and areas under control); UK intelligence (besieged cities); EL PAÍS and other sources (fighting and airstrikes). End ai2html - 2022-03-17 12:21 Russian troops conducted several unsuccessful attacks northwest of Kyiv on Wednesday, according to the Institute for the Study of War (ISW). There were no major ground operations in Chernihiv, Sumy or Kharkov, three cities that the Russian army is attempting to encircle. In the meantime, Russian forces continued to pound civilian targets. According to Ukrainian authorities, a theater in Mariupol that was being used as a shelter was struck on Wednesday, and at least 10 people died while lining up for bread in Chernihiv. Before dawn on Thursday emergency services also reported an attack against a residential building in Kyiv . The United States estimates that 7,000 Russian soldiers have been killed in Ukraine i n these past three weeks , according to information published by The New York Times. There could be an additional 14,000 to 21,000 injured out of a total of 150,000 troops, according to the Pentagon’s calculations. This casualty rate could make it difficult for combat units to carry out their tasks. March 16 | Advances in the Kherson province The Russian advance in Ukraine has been slowing for several days now when compared to the early stages of the offensive. The Russian troops have not carried out simultaneous attacks on the different fronts since March 4, according to the Institute for the Study of War (ISW). The biggest Russian advances in the last day were in the south of the country, where Russian troops have been mounting a series of attacks from Kherson, toward Zaporizhzhia . In the south, the Russian Defense Ministry stated on Tuesday that it had taken control of the Kherson province, although the ISW limited that advance to certain areas in the northeast of that area. This move could be aimed at surrounding Zaporizhzhia, something that seems unlikely, at least until this front can receive reinforcements from the Russian troops that are currently trying to force the surrender of Mariupol, in the east of the country. Generated by ai2html v0.102.1 - 2022-03-16 11:30 ai file: EN_mapa_ataque_16marzo.ai Artboard: movil2 Active advance Earlier advance Russian control Besieged city City controlled by the Russians Recent bombing Recent bombings BELARUS RUSSIA Chernihiv Lutsk Sumy Brovary Yavoriv UKRAINE Dnipro Ivano-Frankivsk Volnovaja MOLD. Melitopol Kherson ROMANIA CRIMEA Black Sea Annexed by Russia in 2014 Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. I t does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: ISW, United Kingdom intelligence Artboard: tableta Active advance Earlier advance Russian control Besieged city City controlled by the Russians Recent fighting Recent bombing BELARUS RUSSIA Chernihiv Konotop Sumy Lutsk Irpin POLAND Brovary Yitomir Yavoriv Kyiv Kharkiv Lviv UKRAINE Ivano-Frankivsk Lugansk Dnipro Krivoi Rog DONBAS Zaporizhzhia Donetsk Volnovaja Mykolaiv MOLD. Odessa Melitopol Kherson Mariupol Berdiansk Sea of Azov CRIMEA ROMANIA Annexed by Russia in 2014 Black Sea Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. I t does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: ISW, United Kingdom intelligence Artboard: escritorio Active advance Earlier advance Russian control Besieged city City controlled by the Russians Recent fighting Recent bombings BELARUS RUSSIA Kursk Chernihiv Konotop Sumy POLAND Lutsk Irpin Belgorod Brovary Yitomir Yavoriv Kyiv Lviv UKRAINE Ivano-Frankivsk Lugansk Dnipro DONBAS Krivoi Rog Zaporizhzhia Donetsk Nuclear power plant Volnovaja Mykolaiv MOLD. ROMANIA Melitopol Odessa Kherson Mariupol Berdiansk Sea of Azov CRIMEA Annexed by Russia in 2014 Black Sea Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. I t does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: ISW, United Kingdom intelligence End ai2html - 2022-03-16 11:30 Russian troops are encountering difficulties in replacing the losses that they are suffering, according to British intelligence services. This difficulty is impeding the invading troops from consolidating positions that they have secured as well as from carrying out multiple offensive operations, given the Ukrainian resistance. In the east, the outskirts of Mariupol – which is located on the coast of the Sea of Azov – have suffered constant Russian air and artillery attacks, both in residential areas and on civil infrastructure. The ISW believes that the surrender of Mariupol will be the next turning point in the conflict, given that the Ukrainian defenders of the city are likely to be left without ammunition or drinking water in “the near future.” The capture of this city, which has been under siege practically since the start of the offensive, would free up Russian troops that the army could send to the east of Zaporizhzhia and toward the area of the Ukrainian coast that Russia is yet to control: Odessa . This port city was bombed last night by a number of Russian ships, according to Anton Yuriiovych, an advisor at the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs. On the outskirts of Kyiv, the Russian troops launched a number of attacks on different areas in the northwest of the capital, while on the eastern flank of the city, the combat units continued to receive reinforcements. March 15 | Russian troops make no progress towards Kyiv There were no significant changes to the situation on the ground. Russian forces launched several attacks northwest of the capital, Kyiv, and unsuccessfully attempted to bridge the Irpin river, according to the ISW. The Russian army did not advance east of Kyiv and might be lacking sufficient troops to renew the offensive on that front for a few days. According to Rochan Consulting, an independent defense consulting firm, Russian soldiers were held back by Ukrainian forces in Brovary, northeast of the capital. Generated by ai2html v0.102.0 - 2022-03-15 11:57 ai file: EN_mapa_ataque_15marzo.ai Artboard: movil2 Active advance Earlier advance Russian control Besieged city City controlled by the Russians Recent bombing Recent bombings BELARUS RUSSIA Chernihiv Lutsk Sumy Brovary Kyiv Lviv Kharkiv Yavoriv UKRAINE Dnipro Ivano-Frankivsk Mykolaiv Volnovaja MOLD. Melitopol Kherson ROMANIA Mariupol Odessa CRIMEA Black Sea Annexed by Russia in 2014 250 km Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. I t does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: ISW, United Kingdom intelligence Artboard: tableta Active advance Earlier advance Russian control Besieged city City controlled by the Russians Recent fighting Recent bombing BELARUS RUSSIA Chernihiv Konotop Sumy Lutsk Irpin POLAND Brovary Yitomir Yavoriv Kyiv Kharkiv Lviv UKRAINE Ivano-Frankivsk Lugansk Dnipro DONBAS Zaporizhzhia Donetsk Volnovaja Mykolaiv MOLD. Odessa Melitopol Kherson Mariupol Berdiansk Sea of Azov CRIMEA ROMANIA Annexed by Russia in 2014 250 km Black Sea Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. I t does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: ISW, United Kingdom intelligence Artboard: escritorio Active advance Earlier advance Russian control Besieged city City controlled by the Russians Recent fighting Recent bombings BELARUS RUSSIA Kursk Chernihiv Konotop Sumy POLAND Lutsk Irpin Belgorod Brovary Yitomir Yavoriv Kyiv Lviv UKRAINE Ivano-Frankivsk Lugansk Dnipro DONBAS Zaporizhzhia Donetsk Nuclear power plant Volnovaja Mykolaiv MOLD. ROMANIA Melitopol Odessa Kherson Mariupol Berdiansk Sea of Azov CRIMEA Annexed by Russia in 2014 250 km Black Sea Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. I t does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: ISW, United Kingdom intelligence End ai2html - 2022-03-15 11:57 Airstrikes on Kyiv continued on Monday, when a projectile hit a residential building in the northern neighborhood of Obolon. There were more strikes on Tuesday and two residential buildings in the districts of Podilsk (northwest) and Osokorky (southeast) were reportedly hit, according to Ukrainian emergency services. In southern Ukraine, Russian troops resumed their attacks from Kherson toward Mykolaiv but Ukrainian forces were able to contain them, according to the ISW. In recent days, Ukrainian citizens have staged public protests in Kherson, Melitopol and Berdiansk against the Russian occupation. According to the UK Defense Ministry, Russia may be trying to organize a “referendum” in Kherson in a bid to legitimize the area as a “separatist republic” similar to Donetsk or Luhansk, in eastern Ukraine, which Russian President Vladimir Putin recognized as republics shortly before launching the invasion. March 14 | Russia secures positions in the Donbas region The Russian army conducted few ground offensives on Sunday save for the Donbas region , where it secured new positions in Donetsk and Luhansk, according to the latest report by the ISW. Operations were renewed on Monday, however, when Ukrainian emergency services reported that two people were killed in an airstrike against a residential building northwest of the capital, Kyiv. In the east, Moscow’s forces launched several attacks in the area extending north of the besieged city of Mariupol. The Ukrainian army said the Russians have captured several towns but that their own forces were able to repel an offensive in Volnovaja, a town of 21,000 residents located between the Sea of Azov and the city of Donetsk, around 40 miles (65 km) from Mariupol. Volnovaja has been hard hit by airstrikes in recent days. Generated by ai2html v0.102.0 - 2022-03-14 12:15 ai file: EN_mapa_ataque_14marzo.ai Artboard: movil2 Active advance Earlier advance Russian control Besieged city City controlled by the Russians Recent combat Recent bombings BELARUS RUSSIA Chernihiv Lutsk Sumy Brovary Kyiv Lviv Kharkiv Yavoriv UKRAINE Dnipro Ivano-Frankivsk Zaporizhzhia Mykolaiv Volnovaja MOLD. Melitopol Odessa Kherson ROMANIA Mariupol CRIMEA Black Sea Annexed by Russia in 2014 250 km Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. It does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: ISW, United Kingdom intelligence Artboard: tableta Active advance Earlier advance Russian control Besieged city City controlled by the Russians Recent combat Recent fighting BELARUS RUSSIA Chernihiv Konotop Sumy Lutsk Irpin POLAND Brovary Yitomir Kyiv Yavoriv Kharkiv Lviv Izium UKRAINE Ivano-Frankivsk Lugansk Dnipro DONBAS Zaporizhzhia Donetsk Volnovaja Mykolaiv MOLD. Odessa Melitopol Kherson Mariupol Berdiansk Sea of Azov CRIMEA ROMANIA Annexed by Russia in 2014 250 km Black Sea Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. It does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: ISW, United Kingdom intelligence Artboard: escritorio Active advance Earlier advance Russian control Besieged city City controlled by the Russians Recent fighting Recent bombings BELARUS RUSSIA Kursk Chernihiv Konotop Sumy POLAND Lutsk Irpin Belgorod Brovary Yitomir Kyiv Yavoriv Lviv Kharkiv UKRAINE Izium Ivano-Frankivsk Lugansk Dnipro DONBAS Zaporizhzhia Donetsk Nuclear power plant Volnovaja Mykolaiv MOLD. ROMANIA Melitopol Odessa Kherson Mariupol Berdiansk Sea of Azov CRIMEA Annexed by Russia in 2014 250 km Black Sea Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. It does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: ISW, United Kingdom intelligence End ai2html - 2022-03-14 12:15 In the south, the British Defense Ministry said that Russia has established a distant blockade of Ukraine’s Black Sea coast , thereby isolating the country from international maritime trade. Russian naval forces are continuing to carry out missile strikes against targets in Ukraine, said the ministry in its latest intelligence update. “Russia has already conducted one amphibious landing in the Sea of Azov and could look to conduct further such operations in the coming weeks,” said the report. In the west, there were Russian airstrikes against military facilities near the border with Poland. March 13 | Airstrikes hit western Ukraine Russian airstrikes hit targets around 15 miles (25 km) from the border with Poland, which is a member of the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) . Ukrainian authorities said Russia launched around 30 missiles against a military base in Yavoriv, near Lviv, a major city in western Ukraine. Following the Friday attacks on Ivano-Frankivsk and Lutsk, this represents the third Russian offensive in an area that up until this weekend had been deemed relatively safe for Ukrainians fleeing the country as well as for the delivery of Western resources to the local army. Around Kyiv, Russian troops renewed their attacks with the goal of encircling the city. The New York Times reported on street-by-street battles in suburbs such as Irpin, west of the capital. Generated by ai2html v0.102.0 - 2022-03-14 13:00 ai file: en_mapa_ataque_13marzo 2.ai Artboard: movil2 Active advance Avance anterior Russian control Besieged city Controlled by the Russians Recent fighting Recent bombing BELARUS RUSSIA Chernihiv Lutsk POLAND Sumy Brovary Kyiv Lviv Kharkiv Yavoriv Dnipro UKRAINE Ivano-Frankivsk Zaporiyia Mykolaiv MOLD. Melitopol Odessa Kherson ROMANIA Mariupol CRIMEA Black Sea Annexed by Russia in 2014 250 km Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. It does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: ISW, United Kingdom intelligence. Artboard: tableta Active advance Earlier advance Russian control Besieged city Controlled by the Russians Recent fighting Recent bombing BELARUS RUSSIA Chernihiv Konotop Sumy Lutsk Irpin POLAND Brovary Yitomir Kyiv Yavoriv Kharkiv Lviv Izium UKRAINE Ivano-Frankivsk Lugansk Dnipro Zaporiyia Donetsk Mykolaiv MOLD. Melitopol Odessa Kherson Mariupol Berdiansk Sea of Azov CRIMEA ROMANIA Annexed by Russia in 2014 250 km Black Sea Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. It does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: ISW, United Kingdom intelligence. Artboard: escritorio Active advance Earlier advance Russian control Besieged city Controlled by the Russians Recent fighting Recent bombing BELARUS RUSSIA Kursk Chernihiv Konotop Sumy POLAND Lutsk Irpin Belgorod Brovary Yitomir Kyiv Yavoriv Lviv Kharkiv Izium UKRAINE Ivano-Frankivsk Lugansk Dnipro Zaporiyia Donetsk Nuclear power plant Mykolaiv MOLD. ROMANIA Melitopol Odessa Kherson Mariupol Berdiansk Sea of Azov CRIMEA Annexed by Russia in 2014 250 km Black Sea Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. It does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: ISW, United Kingdom intelligence. End ai2html - 2022-03-14 13:00 Even so, the Russian army did not appear to have gained new territory. Logistical problems, growing losses and Ukrainian counter-attacks have been slowing down Russian forces’ advance, according to the ISW. This would explain why they have not launched a major attack on Kyiv in recent days, although new troops appeared to be deploying on this front. There was no progress towards Kyiv from other directions, either. Russian forces have for days been trying to capture Chernihiv (north). Near Sumy (northeast), Ukrainian forces said they had attacked and destroyed several Russian vehicles. In Kharkiv (east), the second largest city in the country, the front had barely moved while the fighting and the Russian airstrikes continued. In the south, Ukrainian authorities said Russian troops have captured suburbs east of Mariupol, which has been under intense attack for days. It is here that Russian bombs destroyed a hospital’s maternity ward. According to the ISW, the Kremlin’s goal is not to march into the city with its troops, but to keep up the airstrikes and isolate the city in order to force its citizens to surrender. Ukraine said that a convoy carrying 90 tons of food and medicine is already on its way to Mariupol. March 12 | The Russians are massing forces to encircle Kyiv Russian troops have made no progress for a week. In the last 48 hours they tested the Ukrainian defenses west of Kyiv without success. They failed to take Kharkiv, made no progress on their path towards Mykolaiv or Zaporizhzhia, and same near Donetsk and Luhansk, according to the ISW. Generated by ai2html v0.102.0 - 2022-03-11 12:32 ai file: EN_mapa_ataque_11marzo.ai Artboard: movil2 Active advance Earlier advance Russian control Besieged city City controlled by the Russians Recent fightning Recent bombings BELARUS RUSSIA Chernihiv Konotop Sumy Lutsk Kyiv Brovary Kharkiv UKRAINE Ivano-Frankivsk Dnipro Zaporizhzhia Mykolaiv MOLD. Melitopol Odessa Kherson Mariupol Berdiansk ROMANIA CRIMEA Annexed by Russia in 2014 Black Sea 250 km Note: What does "control" mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying thea area or by holding power over it with weapons. It does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: ISW, United Kingdom intelligence Artboard: tableta Active advance Earlier advance Russian control Besieged city Controlled by the Russians Recent fightning Recent bombings BELARUS RUSSIA Kursk Chernihiv Konotop Sumy Lutsk Irpin Belgorod Brovary Yitomir Kyiv Kharkiv Izium UKRAINE Ivano-Frankivsk Lugansk Dnipro Zaporizhzhia Donetsk Nuclear power plant Mykolaiv MOLD. Melitopol Odessa Mariupol Kherson Berdiansk Sea of Azov CRIMEA ROMANIA Annexed by Russia in 2014 250 km Black Sea Note: What does "control" mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying thea area or by holding power over it with weapons. It does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: ISW, United Kingdom intelligence Artboard: escritorio Active advance Earlier advance Russian control Besieged city City controlled by the Russians Combate reciente Recent bombings BELARUS RUSSIA Kursk Chernihiv Konotop Sumy Lutsk Irpin Belgorod Brovary Yitomir Kyiv Kharkiv Izium UKRAINE Ivano-Frankivsk Lugansk Dnipro Zaporizhzhia Donetsk Nuclear power plant Mykolaiv MOLD. Melitopol Mariupol Odessa Kherson Berdiansk Sea of Azov CRIMEA ROMANIA Annexed by Russia in 2014 250 km Black Sea Note: What does "control" mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying thea area or by holding power over it with weapons. It does not imply any form of governance or legitimacy. Sources: ISW, United Kingdom intelligence End ai2html - 2022-03-11 12:32 In Kyiv, Putin’s troops continued to try to encircle the city, attacking on three flanks. The fighting continued in the northwest, with Russian soldiers around 15 miles from the city center, according to a British Defense Ministry intelligence report from Saturday. The vehicles in the enormous convoy that was detected 10 days ago appear to have dispersed, either to surround Kyiv or to be less vulnerable to Ukrainian attacks. The Russians are also approaching Kyiv from the east, around Brovary. However, according to the ISW, their forces have not secured new territory and part of the contingent appears to have fallen back to defend against Ukrainian counterattacks in the Sumy region. The cities of Kharkiv, Chernihiv, Sumy and Mariupol remain under siege and air bombardments. On Friday, Ukrainian authorities reported bombing in Mykolaiv. In the south, Ukrainian forces halted Russian advances from Crimea, in the north and the west. Russian forces have been dealing with growing problems with supplies and troop morale, according to the ISW. March 11 | “Limited” progress and new airstrikes Russian troops have been making “limited” progress in Ukraine in recent days, according to British Defense Ministry intelligence reports. The invading ground forces have been dealing with logistical problems and with “strong Ukrainian resistance.” This pushback throughout the north of the country, from eastern Kyiv to the city of Sumy, continues to disrupt the Russian army’s efforts to move more troops towards Kyiv in order to encircle the city, according to the ISW. On the 16th day of fighting, British intelligence reports said it was “highly unlikely that Russia has achieved the objectives outlined in its pre-invasion plan.” But Moscow is still expected to reorganize its forces for a renewed offensive, probably including attacks against the capital. In eastern Ukraine, Russian troops bombed civilian areas in Dnipro, a city that had so far not come under attack, said Ukrainian emergency services. In the northwest, Russia claimed to have bombed and rendered inoperative the airbases of Ivano-Frankivsk and Lutsk. Local authorities in the latter municipality, which is near the Polish border, said they heard explosions during the night. Mikhaílo Podoliak, an advisor to the president of Ukraine, confirmed attacks on all three cities. Meanwhile, Russian troops continued to put pressure on besieged cities like Chernihiv, Sumy, Kharkiv and Mariupol. Ukrainian resistance in these enclaves is forcing Russia to devote more resources to them, slowing down their advance to other parts of the country, said the United Kingdom. The Russian Defense Ministry on Friday announced it will declare a ceasefire in the capital and in those four cities. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in an overnight address that around 40,000 people had been evacuated on Thursday via humanitarian corridors. March 10 | Russian troops test Kyiv’s defenses Russian troops did not make significant progress. According to the British Defense Ministry intelligence reports, there was a notable drop in air operations thanks to an efficient Ukrainian defense . In the north, Russian troops renewed their attempt to encircle Kyiv, and on Wednesday they tested the Ukrainian defenses at several points, as confirmed by the ISW and Rochan Consulting. According to Ukrainian information gathered on Tuesday, five Russian battalions launched an attack near Bucha, around 15 miles northwest of Kyiv. Four more battalions reportedly advanced on Yasnohorodka, 23 miles southwest of the capital’s center, in a bid to reach Kyiv from that direction as well. British intelligence on Thursday provided an update on a convoy of Russian vehicles first spotted northwest of Kyiv a few days ago, and which has made little progress over the past week; the convoy has reportedly suffered continuous losses. Russian forces are besieging five cities , according to British intelligence reports: Chernihiv, Sumy, Konotop, Kharkiv and Mariupol. Hundreds of thousands of people are trapped in these locations without food, water, electricity or medicines. Generated by ai2html v0.102.1 - 2022-03-10 13:57 ai file: mariupol_maxar.ai Artboard: movil2 Shopping mall 1 Mariupol Shopping mall 2 3 Residential neighborhood Residential area 4 Sea of Azov 1 Shopping mall damaged in attack/ Maxar 2 Shopping mall reduced to ashes / Maxar 3 Residential neighborhood / Maxar 4 Residential neighborhood after bombing / Maxar Artboard: tableta 1 2 Shopping mall damaged in attack/ Maxar Shopping mall reduced to ashes / Maxar Shopping mall Mariupol 1 Mariupol Shopping mall 3 2 Residential neighborhood 4 Residential area Sea of Azov 3 4 Residential neighborhood / Maxar Residential neighborhood after bombing / Maxar Artboard: escritorio 1 2 Shopping mall damaged in attack/ Maxar Shopping mall reduced to ashes / Maxar Shopping mall Mariupol 1 Mariupol Shopping mall 3 2 Residential neighborhood Residential area 4 Sea of Azov 3 4 Residential neighborhood / Maxar Residential neighborhood after bombing/ Maxar End ai2html - 2022-03-10 13:57 After several unsuccessful attempts to establish a safe route to evacuate residents from Mariupol, Ukraine and Russia held another meeting on Thursday, but it ended without agreement . “Ukraine has proposed a humanitarian corridor to and from Mariupol and a ceasefire of at least one day to address the humanitarian problems of civilians. The Russian side did not agree. I am willing to continue negotiations,” said Ukraine‘s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba. Satellite images published on Thursday by the private US company Maxar Technologies show the damage caused by Russia’s bombardment of key infrastructure in Mariupol, which has been in a critical situation for days. March 9 | Few advances and new bombings The Russian army continued to bomb Kharkiv, Chernihiv, Sumy and Mariupol, some of Ukraine’s main cities, as it prepared for a siege of Kyiv. The humanitarian crisis led both sides to agree to a 12-hour ceasefire starting early on Wednesday to provide some relief for the hundreds of thousands of people trapped in cities under attack. Ukrainian authorities said that they were only able to carry out evacuations in Sumy and Energodar. In the south, Russian troops were apparently trying to reach Odessa , the main port on the Black Sea. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said on social media that Russia has bombed a children’s hospital in Mariupol, a city where the situation is “apocalyptic” according to the Red Cross. The hospital has been destroyed, as seen in footage verified by this newspaper, and local authorities said that 17 people have been injured. Generated by ai2html v0.102.0 - 2022-03-10 18:22 ai file: EN_mapa_ataque_10marzo.ai Artboard: movil2 Recent advances Under Russian control (as of March 9) Previous advances Besieged city City controlled by the Russians Recent fighting Recent bombings BELARUS RUSSIA Chernihiv Konotop Irpin Sumy Kyiv Brovary Kharkiv Bila Tserkva UKRAINE Donbas Central nuclear Zaporizhzhia Mykolaiv Odessa Melitopol Kherson Mariupol Berdiansk Sea of Azov CRIMEA Annexed by Russia in 2014 Black Sea 250 km Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. It does not imply any form of governance or legit Sources: ISW, United Kingdom intelligence Artboard: tableta Recent advances Previous advances Under Russian control (as of March 9) Besieged city City controlled by the Russians Recent fighting Recent bombings BELARUS RUSSIA Kursk Chernihiv Konotop Sumy Irpin Belgorod Brovary Kyiv Kharkiv Bila Tserkva UKRAINE Lugansk Dnipro Donbas Zaporizhzhia Donetsk Nuclear power plant Mykolaiv Rostov del Don Melitopol Mariupol Odessa Kherson MOLD. Berdiansk Sea of Azov CRIMEA Annexed by Russia in 2014 Black Sea 250 km Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. It does not imply any form of governance or legit Sources: ISW, United Kingdom intelligence Artboard: escritorio Recent advances Previous advances Under Russian control (as of March 9) Besieged city City controlled by the Russians Recent fighting Recent bombings BELARUS RUSSIA Kursk Chernihiv Konotop Sumy Irpin Belgorod Brovary Yitomir Kyiv Kharkiv Bila Tserkva UKRAINE Lugansk Dnipro Donbas Zaporizhzhia Donetsk Nuclear power plant Mykolaiv Rostov-on-Don MOLD. Melitopol Mariupol Odessa Kherson Berdiansk Sea of Azov CRIMEA ROMANIA Annexed by Russia in 2014 Black Sea 250 km Note: What does “control” mean? It requires exerting a physical influence over an area to prevent its use by the enemy. It could be achieved by occupying the area or by holding power over it with weapons. It does not imply any form of governance or legit Sources: ISW, United Kingdom intelligence End ai2html - 2022-03-10 18:22 Near the capital, the most active front was in Irpin, in the western outskirts of Kyiv, where civilians have been hit by shelling in recent days. Russian troops did not make any gains, but they were reportedly concentrating their forces ahead of new operations. All analysts agree that Russia’s goal is to encircle Kyiv and force it to surrender. In northeastern Ukraine, there was fighting in Chernihiv and in Sumy, two cities from which Russian troops are trying to create a communication line to Kyiv. In the east, British Defense Ministry intelligence reports talked about shelling in Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second biggest city. From here, it is believed that Russian forces are seeking to connect with the troops currently deployed in the Donetsk and Donbas regions to create a large front in this part of the country. March 8 | Supplies and reinforcements for the siege Russian troop movement around Kyiv has several goals: surrounding the capital from several sides, accumulating supplies and reinforcements, and cutting off the city’s links to the outside world, according to the ISW. The Kremlin is reportedly massing tanks and men on two flanks: the northwest one, where it is trying to gain control of the cities of Irpin, 15 miles from the capital, and Bucha, three miles further north. On the eastern flank, the target is Brovary, a small town on the outskirts of Kyiv. In both cases, Russian soldiers are running into resistance from Ukrainians. Shelling has also been reported in the last two days around 59 miles south of the capital, in the city of Bila Tserkva. This could be an attempt to reach Kyiv from a front where there was little activity in previous days, according to the Rochan Institute and The Guardian. Irpin, a dormitory town of around 60,000 residents, has become a containment wall against Russia’s advance west of the capital. It was targeted for bombing at the beginning of the invasion and it has been the scene of fighting over the past week. Russian soldiers may be using “siege-and-starve” tactics on the city, using a strategy that was already used in Syria, according to the ISW. The goal is to get the population to surrender by preventing water and food from coming in, said Ukrainian authorities. Evacuation in Irpin on the bridge to Kyiv on Tuesday, after a safe passage was opened. Sergey Supinsky (AFP). A day earlier, Russian troops had fired on civilians leaving Irpin on that same bridge to the capital . Emilio Morenatti (AP). The Russian attack on the bridge area caused several civilian casualties among Ukrainians. Roman Pilipey (EFE). Irpin and the surrounding area was bombed at the beginning of the invasion, and Hostomel airport was rendered useless. Planet Labs (PBC). A residential neighborhood in the north came under heavy shelling between March 1 and 2. Serhii Nuzhnenko (Reuters). The fighting reached the city. There are images of Russian tanks in a neighborhood near the Bucha River . @Militarylandnet. Last Sunday, images of civilians killed by artillery fire as they were trying to flee Irpin created greater pressure for humanitarian corridors to evacuate people and bring in supplies. Attempts at establishing safe passages failed on Monday, but were established on Tuesday in Sumy and Irpin. Around 150 people had fled the latter city in the early morning hours, according to local authorities. In the east, fighting continued in major cities such as Kharkiv and Sumy, where a bomb attack killed at least 10 people according to Ukrainian authorities. The city of Mariupol is reportedly surrounded by Russian troops. In the south, a bloody battle took place on Monday for control over the city of Mykolaiv, according to The New York Times. This is a key port on the Black Sea and would help Moscow prepare its attack on Odessa. If it manages to take both cities, Russia will have almost total control over the country’s access to the sea. English version by Susana Urra More information Analysis | The implications of the US, UK veto on Russian oil imports Ignacio Fariza | Madrid US intelligence did not prevent Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, but it brought Western bloc together Amanda Mars / María Antonia Sánchez-Vallejo | Washington DC / New York Adheres to More information Abrir You have left X artículos gratis este mes Subscribe The first month for only 1€ Keep reading without limits Subscribe for 1€ Inicia sesión o regístrate gratis para continuar leyendo en incógnito Regístrate gratis Inicia sesión Suscríbete y lee sin límites Ver opciones de suscripción HOLA Subscribe for € 1 My activity My Subscription My personal data My newsletters Rights and de-registration Events and experiences logout change contrast: Buscar Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA If you want to follow all the latest news without any limits, subscribe to EL PAÍS for just €1 the first month SUBSCRIBE NOW Spain Economy And Business Society Opinion International Culture Sports Science & Tech Travel USA EPS Podcasts Newsletter Follow on: 