 1 weather alerts 1 closings/delays Watch Now Watch Now 1 weather alerts 1 closings/delays Menu Search site Watch Now Watch Now Close x Live Watch Alerts Search site Go Link without subnavigation News Links within a subnav group Local News National News FOX 13 News 360 Health Politics Sports Salt Lake City Int'l Airport Link without subnavigation Weather Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Traffic Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation FOX 13 Investigates Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Positively Utah Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Good Day Utah Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Community Links within a subnav group Zero Hunger Hero We're Open Recipes Zero Fatalities UCAIR Give a Child a Book Link without subnavigation Give A Child A Book Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation The Place Links within a subnav group Funding Your Future Be a Guest on The PLACE doTERRA SelectHealth Link without subnavigation Contests Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Dream Team Links within a subnav group Nominate Someone for a FOX 13 Dream Team Surprise! Link without subnavigation About Us Links within a subnav group Staff Bios Contact Us TV Listings Seen on FOX 13 News Jobs at FOX 13 Moving Forward Link without subnavigation Healthier Together Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Brand Spotlight Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Advertise with Us Links within a subnav group Sign In Newsletters Sign Out Manage Emails Apps Careers Search Link without subnavigation Local News Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation FOX 13 Investigates Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation The PLACE Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Weather Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Contests Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Dream Team Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Home Pros Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Positively Utah Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Your BeUTAHful Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Two Americas Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Give A Child A Book Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Freaky Friday Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Hurricane Ian Donations Links within a subnav group Quick links... Local News FOX 13 Investigates The PLACE Weather Contests Dream Team Home Pros Positively Utah Your BeUTAHful Two Americas Give A Child A Book Freaky Friday Hurricane Ian Donations 1 weather alerts 1 closings/delays News National News Russia-Ukraine War Actions Facebook Tweet Email Russia, Ukraine trade blame for deadly attack on POW prison Alexei Alexandrov/AP FILE - Smoke rises from the Metallurgical Combine Azovstal in Mariupol during shelling, in Mariupol, in territory under the government of the Donetsk People's Republic, eastern Ukraine, Saturday, May 7, 2022. Russia-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine say that at least 40 Ukrainian prisoners of war captured during the fighting for Mariupol have been killed by Ukrainian shelling. (AP Photo/Alexei Alexandrov, File) altFormatsOnly By: The Associated Press Posted at 10:33 AM, Jul 29, 2022 and last updated 2022-07-29 12:33:44-04 KYIV, Ukraine (AP) — Russia and Ukraine accused each other Friday of shelling a prison in a separatist region of eastern Ukraine, an attack that reportedly killed dozens of Ukrainian prisoners of war who were captured after the fall of a key southern city in May. Both sides said the assault was premeditated with the aim of covering up atrocities. Russia claimed that Ukraine's military used U.S.-supplied multiple rocket launchers to strike the prison in Olenivka, a settlement controlled by the Moscow-backed Donetsk People's Republic. Separatist authorities and Russian officials said the attack killed 53 Ukrainian POWs and wounded another 75. Moscow opened a probe into the attack, sending a team to the site from Russia’s Investigative Committee, the country's main criminal investigation agency. The state RIA Novosti agency reported that fragments of U.S.-supplied precision High Mobility Artillery Rocket System rockets were found at the site. The Ukrainian military denied making any rocket or artillery strikes in Olenivka, and accused the Russians of shelling the prison to cover up the alleged torture and execution of Ukrainians there. An adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy described the shelling as a “a deliberate, cynical, calculated mass murder of Ukrainian prisoners.” Neither claim could be independently verified. Denis Pushilin, the leader of the internationally unrecognized Donetsk republic, said the prison held 193 inmates. He didn’t specify how many were Ukrainian POWs. The deputy commander of the Donetsk separatist forces, Eduard Basurin, suggested that Ukraine decided to strike the prison to prevent captives from revealing key military information. Ukraine “knew exactly where they were being held and in what place," he said. "After the Ukrainian prisoners of war began to talk about the crimes they committed, and orders they received from Kyiv, a decision was made by the political leadership of Ukraine: carry out a strike here.” Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak called for a “strict investigation” into the deadly attack and urged the United Nations and other international organizations to condemn it. He said the Russians had transferred some Ukrainian prisoners to the barrack that was hit just a few days before the strike, suggesting that it was planned. “The purpose — to discredit Ukraine in front of our partners and disrupt weapons supply,” he tweeted. A Russian Defense Ministry spokesperson, Lt. Gen. Igor Konashenkov, described the strike as a “bloody provocation” aimed at discouraging Ukrainian soldiers from surrendering. He too claimed that U.S.-supplied HIMARS rockets were used, and said eight guards were among the wounded. Ukrainian forces are fighting to hold on to the remaining territory under their control in Donetsk, which together with neighboring Luhansk province makes up Ukraine's mostly Russian-speaking industrial Donbas region. For several months of the war in Ukraine , Moscow has focused on trying to seize parts of the Donbas not already held by the separatists. Ukrainian authorities in the Donetsk region accused Russia on Friday of shelling civilian targets in Ukrainian-held areas. “The fighting in the region has been intensifying by the day, and civilians must evacuate while it’s still possible,” Donetsk Gov. Pavlo Kyrylenko said. “The Russian army doesn’t worry about civilian casualties. They are pummeling cities and villages in the region.” He later said one person was killed and five injured Friday in Russian rocket strike on the city of Kramatorsk. The Ukrainian POWS at the Donetsk prison included troops captured during the fall of Mariupol . They spent months holed up with civilians at a giant steel mill in the southern port city. Their resistance during a relentless Russian bombardment became a symbol of Ukrainian defiance against Russia's aggression. More than 2,400 soldiers from the Azov Regiment of the Ukrainian national guard and other military units gave up their fight and surrendered under orders from Ukraine's military in May. Scores of Ukrainian soldiers have been taken to prisons in Russian-controlled areas. Some have returned to Ukraine as part of prisoner exchanges with Russia, but the families of other POWs have no idea whether their loved ones are still alive, or if they will ever come home. Report a typo Copyright 2022 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Sign up for the Breaking News Newsletter and receive up to date information. now signed up to receive the Breaking NewsNewsletter. Click here to manage all Newsletters altFormatsOnly About Us Watch FOX 13 News on your favorite streaming device anytime, anywhere Link without subnavigation News Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Traffic Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Weather Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Community Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Support Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Sitemap Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Advertise with Us Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Privacy Policy Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Privacy Center Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Terms of Use Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation EEO Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation FCC Public Files Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation FCC Application Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Public File Contact Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Accessibility Statement Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Closed Captioning Contact Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Careers Links within a subnav group Social fox13newsutah fox13now fox13 Scripps Local Media © 2022 Scripps Media, Inc Give Light and the People Will Find Their Own Way 