Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA International subscribe H HOLA LOG IN International INVESTIGATION Russian security services followed dissident Navalny on the day he was poisoned     Since 2017, an elite group specializing in chemical substances has been monitoring an anti-Putin activist who was attacked with the Novichok nerve agent in August Russian dissident Alexei Navalny with his family in Charité Clinic in Berlin, where he was admitted after being poisoned with Novichok nerve agent. HANDOUT (AFP) Joaquín Gil Madrid -  14 Dec 2020    -    12:14     UTC In August, an elite unit specializing in chemical substances that answers to  Russia’s Federal Security Service  (FSB, the successor agency to the Soviet Union’s KGB) traveled to the Siberian city of Tomsk, where Alexey Navalny, considered a leading anti-Kremlin campaigner, was poisoned that month, according to an investigation by the website  Bellingcat  in collaboration with EL PAÍS, CNN,  Der Spiegel  and  The Insider . RELATED STORY Alexei Navalny: ‘I have no doubt that Putin gave the order to poison me’ At least three FSB agents flew to the Siberian city of Novosibirsk a week before the dissident’s poisoning. The officials in this group reached Tomsk, where the activist was staying, on August 19, the day before the poisoning. They remained in the Siberian city for three days, as evidenced by their travel records and cellphone location data. A telephone connection also confirms that an FSB agent was near the Xander Hotel in Tomsk, where the anti-corruption activist was staying. The latter’s aides said they found a water bottle in his room with traces of Novichok, a poison that attacks the nervous system developed by the Soviet Union in the 1970s and 80s. The same nerve agent was used in 2018 to try to kill the former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in the English city of Salisbury. I spent 18 days in a coma and still, the official position of Russian authorities is, ‘Nobody poisoned him. Why was he in a coma? We don’t know’ Alexei Navalny, leading anti-Kremlin campaigner “It’s all true. There was an FSB group that included doctors and chemists who followed me from Moscow to Novosibirsk, and from there to Tomsk, where they poisoned me. The agents stayed in Tomsk after administering the substance. I don’t have the slightest doubt that this is the way it was. It is still unclear how exactly the poisoning was performed,” said Navalny on Friday in a video conference with EL PAÍS from Germany, where he was hospitalized in August following  diplomatic pressure  to get him out of the Siberian city of Omsk, where he was initially treated. Navalny was not the only person to come near the FSB agents. On August 13, a member of this security service was at the Moscow Domodedovo International Airport at the same time as Maria Pevchikh, an anti-corruption investigator who works with the dissident and who was taking a flight to Novosibirsk. Traced phone activity shows that the monitoring operation against Navalny in Tomsk involved at least eight agents working for the Criminalistics Institute, also known as NII or Military Unit 34435. Officially, this group’s mission is to fight organized crime and terrorism, and its origins go back to 1977, to the days of the former KGB. A water bottle is seen in a hotel room where Russian opposition politician Alexei Navalny stayed during his visit to the Siberian city of Tomsk. SOCIAL MEDIA (Reuters) “I could see that I was under surveillance all the time. But now I know that it wasn’t a part of surveillance, it was a killing team. Back in early 2017, they had an order to prepare this operation and then they waited for the order to kill me. That is why they were following me. They always came into the city a day before me,” he told this newspaper. The following of Navalny dates back to early 2017. The anti-Putin activist has been monitored by the FSB on over 30 flights in trips outside of Moscow. Operatives even traveled on the same planes as the dissident, according to hundreds of telephone records and positioning data. “They were following me for three and a half years. It’s totally clear that this operation was organized by the chief of FSB, Alexánder Bórtnikov, under direct orders from Putin,” said the anti-corruption activist, who explained how the lethal toxic substance works: “The amount of Novichok used is crucial. If the amount is not enough, you may feel shortly ill then the feeling will be gone, but if the amount is enough you will be dead, and if the amount is too much, you will be immediately dead.” The anti-Putin activist has been monitored by the FSB on over 30 flights in trips outside of Moscow. Operatives even traveled on the same planes as the dissident According to the investigative reporting website  Bellingcat , the FSB has a secret unit of around a dozen agents who are trained in medicine and toxicology. The group specializes in chemical and biological weapons. Headquartered in a lab in the Russian city of Korolev, the group’s missions are supervised by Colonel S. Makshakov, an official who participated in a  chemical weapons program  in the Russian city of Shikhany, where – according to CNN reports citing British public officials – Novichok was created and later used in the failed attempt to kill Skripal and his daughter in 2018. According to  Bellingcat , the colonel reports to General K. Vaisiyev, director of the FSB’s Criminalistics Institute and a chemical engineer by training. Phone calls between members of the secretive unit, as analyzed by  Bellingcat , show that on August 12 three FSB agents called the colonel after booking flights to the Siberian city of Novosibirsk, from which location they later traveled to Tomsk. Records show that one of the individuals in charge of monitoring the opposition leader later contacted the head of Unit 34435. “If Russian authorities want to investigate this case, it’s quite easy. Just video footage from the hotel, that’s it. But the next day all video footage was confiscated, and my clothes were confiscated, and there is still no criminal investigation. I spent 18 days in a coma and still, the official position of Russian authorities is, ‘Nobody poisoned him. Why was he in a coma? We don’t know’,” said the dissident. Navalny, 44, collapsed on a flight between Siberia and Moscow on August 20. As he screamed in agony, the plane made an emergency landing in Omsk, where he was hospitalized. Following intense diplomatic pressure, the lawyer was taken to Charité Clinic in Berlin, where he remained for 32 days. A German military laboratory and independent analyses in France and Sweden later  confirmed poisoning  with a substance from the Novichok class of nerve agents. This theory has also been supported by the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW). English version by  Susana Urra . Comments Rules     More information Russian spy detected in Catalonia accused of poisoning Bulgarian arms dealer Joaquín Gil  /  José María Irujo  | Madrid Three suspected Russian spies traveled to Barcelona in 2016 and 2017 Óscar López-Fonseca  /  María R. Sahuquillo  | Madrid / Moscow Adheres to More information newsletter Sign up to EL PAÍS in English Edition bulletin Most viewed Why millennials are the new online dinosaurs European Medicines Agency warns of deaths due to prolonged use of drugs combining codeine and ibuprofen  Calista Flockhart: the return of the misunderstood star who prioritized family over Hollywood glamor Rare diamond destined for a jewelry store has precious geological value   Liv Tyler: Why the actress who was born to be a star turned her back on Hollywood Recomendaciones EL PAÍS Cursos Centros Francés online Inglés online Italiano online Alemán online Crucigramas & Juegos  Cursos cursos Maestría en línea en Dirección de Marketing y Gestión Comercial cursos Maestría en línea en Administración y Dirección de Empresas cursos Maestría en línea en Business Administration cursos Maestría en línea en Inteligencia Artificial para la Transformación de Negocios Centros cursosonline Maestría en Digital Product Management 100% en línea cursosonline Curso Experto Universitario en Escritura, Estilo y Creatividad cursosonline Maestría en Marketing Digital 100% en línea  cursosonline Maestría en Finanzas y Dirección Financiera en línea Francés online cursosingles Mejora tu francés con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfruta de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación.  cursosingles  21 días de prueba gratuita de nuestro curso de francés ‘online’ Inglés online cursosingles Mejore su inglés con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Italiano online cursosingles Mejore su italiano con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Alemán online cursosingles Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online'  cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Crucigramas & Juegos  juegos Crucigramas minis juegos Crucigramas Tarkus juegos Sudokus mini juegos Sopas de letras   Recomendaciones EL PAÍS Cursos Centros  Italiano online Francés online Alemán online Crucigramas & Juegos  Cursos cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados del sector Salud cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Cultura y Humanidades cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Administración de Empresas cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Creatividad y Diseño Centros  cursosonline Maestría Ejecutiva en Marketing Digital y e-Commerce 100% en línea cursosonline Descubre los cursos más demandados del sector Industrial cursosonline Maestría Ejecutiva en Coaching Integral y Organizacional 100% en línea cursosonline Descubre un completo Directorio de Centros de Formación Italiano online cursosingles Mejore su italiano con solo 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Francés online cursosingles Mejore su francés con solo 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Alemán online cursosingles Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online'  cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Crucigramas & Juegos  juegos ¡Disfruta con nuestros Crucigramas para expertos! juegos Resuelve los últimos Crucigramas de Mambrino juegos Juega a nuestros Sudoku para Expertos y mejora día a día tu nivel juegos Juega a las nuevas Sopas de letras clásicas y temáticas de EL PAÍS Abrir You have left X  artículos gratis este mes Subscribe The first month for only 1€ Keep reading without limits Subscribe for 1€ Inicia sesión o regístrate gratis para continuar leyendo en incógnito Regístrate gratis Inicia sesión Suscríbete y lee sin límites Ver opciones de suscripción HOLA Subscribe for € 1 My activity My Subscription My personal data My newsletters Rights and de-registration Events and experiences logout change contrast: Buscar Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA If you want to follow all the latest news without any limits, subscribe to EL PAÍS for just €1 the first month SUBSCRIBE NOW Spain Economy And Business Society Opinion International Culture Sports Science & Tech Travel USA EPS Podcasts Newsletter Follow on:   Comments     Rules Log into El País to participate I already have a subscription