Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA International subscribe H HOLA LOG IN International RUSSIAN OFFENSIVE IN UKRAINE The wall that separates Ukrainian and Russian refugees in America The conflict in Europe is beginning to have an effect on the border between the United States and Mexico, which is one of the most intense migration points on the continent Russian and Ukrainian families in an improvised camp in Tijuana, Mexico this week. Joebeth Terriquez (EFE) Luis Pablo Beauregard Tijuana -  18 Mar 2022    -    10:43     UTC Under a pedestrian bridge, a municipal police officer from Tijuana plays with his phone. From the inside of a car, he is watching a deserted, taped off square. El Chaparral, one of the pedestrian routes from  Mexico  to the United States, once held a camp of nearly 400 Central American migrants who wanted to enter California. They were cleared from the area on March 6. Now they are living in a number of shelters. The area is getting ready for the impeding crisis. On Wednesday, the officer pointed to the west, to San Ysidro, which is barely more than two kilometers away. “That’s where the Russians are arriving,” he says, keen to return to his cellphone. One of the borders with the most movement in America is awaiting the waves that the war in Europe have caused. The  conflict on the other side of the world  has, until now, seen three million Ukrainians flee their home country. Ukrainians and Russians started to arrive on the border last week. They found the wall that the administration of US President Joe Biden has left intact, the one put in place by  his predecessor Donald Trump . It’s a bureaucratic swamp that delays refugee and asylum requests, a mechanism that was damaged by the Republican politician and that the current government has promised to repair. But the resurgence of Vladimir Putin’s offensive in Ukraine has moved the gears in Washington. Anyone who shows their Ukrainian passport right now can enter the United States. On Sunday, 11 people passed. On Monday it was nine. A trickle of refugees has been arriving at a border point where, on average, 14,400 people a day cross. Citizens in the country under siege are, these days, the shooting stars on the border. Their passage cuts in two the mass ranks of people waiting to cross. More information Schwarzenegger speaks directly to the Russian people in viral video We know that the Ukrainians are the lucky ones right now,” explains Marc, 32, from Moscow, and who opts not to supply his surname. He’s one of the 30 or so Russians who have recently arrived in Tijuana. A delegate from the Baja California government has told news agency Reuters that more than 300 citizens with Russian nationality have arrived in the city in the last month. A restaurant manager, Marc is opposed to the war and attended demonstrations against the conflict. He says that he had a good wage. He admits that he had some problems with the police, but won’t go into more detail because his parents and in-laws are still in his home country. “The war made clear to me that nothing will be the same in Russia,” he explains. “Things were going badly and now they can only go worse.” Russian citizens in San Ysidro.  Omar Martínez (CUARTOSCURO) He spent $2,000 on plane tickets for him and his wife Oxana, 29. They left for Turkey six days ago, and then to Germany, from where they flew to the  tourist port of Cancun . Sat by the waves of the Caribbean, they wondered what to do with their lives. Four days later, there they were. They are sleeping on the asfalt, a few meters from the gate that they are hoping to cross with political asylum. “These are not vacations, we are fleeing,” he says. He’s blond, has his hair cut short and eyes that are a deep green color, and is wearing a Metallica t-shirt. He has no choice but to wait, even if it’s for a year. “There’s no going back to Russia for us,” he says. The local authorities fear that this camp will get out of control in the coming weeks. The settlements, however, prompt optimism among many more. In less than a week, there were new arrivals fleeing the violence of war, a Colombian couple and even a Syrian, whose language of solidarity with the Russians was based in the exchange of cigarettes. Migrating is easier when it’s a collective dream. In my opinion, there is a chance that Putin could launch a nuclear missile at Europe Yuri Savkin, 36 But on Wednesday, a council worker from Tijuana approached the group to hand over to them a letter that banned them from sleeping or living on the street. The text offered to take them to one of the shelters in the city. The document had taken some time to arrive, because they couldn’t find a translator who could write in Russian. The message left the new migrants greatly concerned. Yuri Savkin, 36, traveled from Chernogolovka, 80 kilometers from Moscow, to Mexico City, where he landed on March 14. “In my opinion, there is a chance that Putin could launch a nuclear missile at Europe,” he says, with the help of Google Translate. With him are his wife Helen, 44, and Sonia, his nine-year-old daughter. “I decided to leave the country and not wait for the call from the Army, because I don’t want to fight against the civilian population nor obey criminal orders,” he says. He’s wearing a smart Tommy Hilfiger jacket and there are traces of sunblock on his face. In his country, he was a businessman offering investment services. All of this has gone up in smoke with the sanctions that have been imposed by the West. He has $3,000 with him. He can’t touch the money he has in England – his cards have been blocked and his accounts frozen. Today his only privilege is to occupy the first spot next to the barbed wire fence at the border. He’s spent the last five days publishing his story on the social media accounts of US politicians. He has 180 days, the legal limit in Mexico, to get someone’s attention. “There’s no Plan B,” he warns. English version by  Simon Hunter . More information Schwarzenegger speaks directly to the Russian people in viral video El País ‘Fentanyl is being sold everywhere. Mexico is a producer and consumer’ Georgina Zerega  | Mexico Adheres to More information newsletter Sign up to EL PAÍS in English Edition bulletin Most viewed Why millennials are the new online dinosaurs European Medicines Agency warns of deaths due to prolonged use of drugs combining codeine and ibuprofen  Calista Flockhart: the return of the misunderstood star who prioritized family over Hollywood glamor Rare diamond destined for a jewelry store has precious geological value   Liv Tyler: Why the actress who was born to be a star turned her back on Hollywood Recomendaciones EL PAÍS Cursos Centros Francés online Inglés online Italiano online Alemán online Crucigramas & Juegos  Cursos cursos Maestría en línea en Dirección de Marketing y Gestión Comercial cursos Maestría en línea en Administración y Dirección de Empresas cursos Maestría en línea en Business Administration cursos Maestría en línea en Inteligencia Artificial para la Transformación de Negocios Centros cursosonline Maestría en Digital Product Management 100% en línea cursosonline Curso Experto Universitario en Escritura, Estilo y Creatividad cursosonline Maestría en Marketing Digital 100% en línea  cursosonline Maestría en Finanzas y Dirección Financiera en línea Francés online cursosingles Mejora tu francés con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfruta de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación.  cursosingles  21 días de prueba gratuita de nuestro curso de francés ‘online’ Inglés online cursosingles Mejore su inglés con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Italiano online cursosingles Mejore su italiano con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Alemán online cursosingles Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online'  cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Crucigramas & Juegos  juegos Crucigramas minis juegos Crucigramas Tarkus juegos Sudokus mini juegos Sopas de letras   Recomendaciones EL PAÍS Cursos Centros  Italiano online Francés online Alemán online Crucigramas & Juegos  Cursos cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados del sector Salud cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Cultura y Humanidades cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Administración de Empresas cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Creatividad y Diseño Centros  cursosonline Maestría Ejecutiva en Marketing Digital y e-Commerce 100% en línea cursosonline Descubre los cursos más demandados del sector Industrial cursosonline Maestría Ejecutiva en Coaching Integral y Organizacional 100% en línea cursosonline Descubre un completo Directorio de Centros de Formación Italiano online cursosingles Mejore su italiano con solo 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Francés online cursosingles Mejore su francés con solo 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Alemán online cursosingles Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online'  cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Crucigramas & Juegos  juegos ¡Disfruta con nuestros Crucigramas para expertos! juegos Resuelve los últimos Crucigramas de Mambrino juegos Juega a nuestros Sudoku para Expertos y mejora día a día tu nivel juegos Juega a las nuevas Sopas de letras clásicas y temáticas de EL PAÍS Abrir You have left X  artículos gratis este mes Subscribe The first month for only 1€ Keep reading without limits Subscribe for 1€ Inicia sesión o regístrate gratis para continuar leyendo en incógnito Regístrate gratis Inicia sesión Suscríbete y lee sin límites Ver opciones de suscripción HOLA Subscribe for € 1 My activity My Subscription My personal data My newsletters Rights and de-registration Events and experiences logout change contrast: Buscar Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA If you want to follow all the latest news without any limits, subscribe to EL PAÍS for just €1 the first month SUBSCRIBE NOW Spain Economy And Business Society Opinion International Culture Sports Science & Tech Travel USA EPS Podcasts Newsletter Follow on:  