Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA International subscribe H HOLA LOG IN International RUSSIAN OFFENSIVE IN UKRAINE Video | The difference between a missile and a rocket, and other questions about the weapons used in Ukraine A retired Spanish general with experience of Russian arms analyzes some of the military artifacts that can be seen in the images from the war 04:47 How is a rocket different from a missile? A still from a video of a missile striking a residential building in Kyiv last Saturday. Photo:     VITALIY KLITSCHKO / AFP    |  Video:     EPV Antonio Nieto Jaime Casal Madrid -  12 Mar 2022    -    04:13     UTC General Esteban Verástegui, who retired in 2007, explains that he knows Soviet weaponry well because, in his day, they were “the enemy.” He adds: “For any member of the military, the first thing they have to know is what they are going to have to fight.” What’s more, when he was stationed in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, he became familiar with Ukrainian helicopters. “The Ilyushin, the Antonov,” he recites from memory. At the end of his military career, he was the European Union mission chief in Guinea-Bissau. His experience draws him to a conclusion about Moscow’s strategy. “It’s quite smart, not spending a single unnecessary ruble on war material,” he explains, adding that the lack of sophistication of Russia’s resources means that they “withstand negative conditions better than others that are more sophisticated.” From his point of view, the Russian invasion of Ukraine has one particular factor. “It’s a confrontation with materials that have a similar origin.” He believes that the letters painted on Russian vehicles could be serving to avoid friendly fire. In this video, the general also explains other images from the invasion, such as those recorded by a resident of Bucha, Ukraine, after combat in the streets, the difference between a missile and a rocket, the characteristics of some of the helicopters that have been recorded in the midst of an attack, and the danger that some citizens are exposed to when they approach military artifacts in the street. Adheres to More information Abrir You have left X  artículos gratis este mes Subscribe The first month for only 1€ Keep reading without limits Subscribe for 1€ Inicia sesión o regístrate gratis para continuar leyendo en incógnito Regístrate gratis Inicia sesión Suscríbete y lee sin límites Ver opciones de suscripción HOLA Subscribe for € 1 My activity My Subscription My personal data My newsletters Rights and de-registration Events and experiences logout change contrast: Buscar Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA If you want to follow all the latest news without any limits, subscribe to EL PAÍS for just €1 the first month SUBSCRIBE NOW Spain Economy And Business Society Opinion International Culture Sports Science & Tech Travel USA EPS Podcasts Newsletter Follow on:  