Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA Economy And Business subscribe H HOLA LOG IN Economy And Business RUSSIAN OFFENSIVE AGAINST UKRAINE Russian central bank warns of production bottlenecks as it struggles with sanctions The regulator said the economy is facing a massive structural adjustment as borrowing costs soar along with inflation The governor of the Central Bank of Russia, Elvira Nabiullina, in a file photo. Evgenia Novozhenina (REUTERS) El País Madrid -  21 Mar 2022    -    18:29     UTC Russia’s central bank is, for now at least, sticking to the initial decisions it adopted to counter the major crisis triggered by the Ukraine invasion and the  ensuing global sanctions . But it warned about the possibility of supply shortages and runaway inflation. “Companies in many industries are reporting bottlenecks in production and logistics due to the imposed trade and financial restrictions,” said the bank in a statement. Business adaptation to the situation, including restructuring of productive and supply chains, will be “the determining factor in price dynamics in the coming quarters.” The agency led by Elvira Nabiullina raised interest rates from 9.5% to 20% on February 28, four days after President Vladimir Putin  ordered the attack  on Ukraine. At its monthly meeting, the central bank decided to keep the rate at this level, and warned it could go even higher depending on inflation, risk assessment and market reaction to the same. One of the first expected consequences is a significant drop in loans, and the bank said that state lending programs will be key to propping up businesses facing a slowdown in activity as well as higher borrowing costs. The central bank suspended stock trading on February 25 and over three weeks later it remains closed. Trading in Russian stocks in global markets such as London has also been suspended after these shares lost over 90% of their value. “The Russian economy is entering a phase of massive structural adjustment,” said the bank in its statement, warning about an inevitable period of great inflation which it hopes to see back down at 4% by the year 2024. A couple of months before the invasion, the official inflation rate was 8.4%, according to the statistical agency Rostat, due to logistical problems arising from the coronavirus pandemic. Crisis management For several days it was unclear whether Nabiullina would remain at the helm of the central bank. On Friday, Putin himself handed parliament his proposal to renew her in the post for another five-year term. Nabiullina, whose current term expires in June, took the job in June 2013, under Putin’s turbulent second decade in power. In this time she has earned a good reputation, and her agency is viewed as one of the few that remain relatively independent from the Kremlin. In close to nine years of service, the chief banker has had to deal with the effects of  a global pandemic  and with a tsunami of sanctions that began with Russia’s annexation of Crimea in 2014, followed by the war in eastern Ukraine that same year, the poisoning of the spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter in 2018 and of the  political opponent Alexei Navalny  in 2020, accusations of meddling in the American presidential election of 2016, and now, the invasion of Ukraine. From one day to the next, Russia watched sanctions put a freeze on $640 billion in gold and foreign exchange reserves, an initiative that even Switzerland has joined. Meanwhile, the Russian central bank has over 2.3 billion tons of gold that cannot find any buyers due to fears of sanctions. In the first three weeks of the war, the ruble lost 30% of its value. In a video made a week after the start of the war and aired on March 2, the central banker addressed employees to ask them for unity. “Our economy is facing an extreme situation, completely out of the ordinary,” she said, promising to do everything possible to ensure Russia’s financial system and central bank can cope with any shocks. More information The Western assets held by Russian oligarchs: Planes, mansions, yachts and offshore firms Daniele Grasso  /  Montse Hidalgo Pérez  /  Javier Galán  /  Yolanda Clemente  | Madrid From ‘biological weapons’ to ‘pro-Nazi’ Ukraine: How Putin is trying to justify the war Andrea Rizzi  | Madrid Adheres to More information newsletter Sign up to EL PAÍS in English Edition bulletin Most viewed European Medicines Agency warns of deaths due to prolonged use of drugs combining codeine and ibuprofen  Why millennials are the new online dinosaurs Rare diamond destined for a jewelry store has precious geological value   Calista Flockhart: the return of the misunderstood star who prioritized family over Hollywood glamor Texas executes John Henry Ramirez, the inmate who asked to die holding his pastor’s hand  Recomendaciones EL PAÍS Cursos Centros Francés online Inglés online Italiano online Alemán online Crucigramas & Juegos  Cursos cursos Maestría en línea en Dirección de Marketing y Gestión Comercial cursos Maestría en línea en Administración y Dirección de Empresas cursos Maestría en línea en Business Administration cursos Maestría en línea en Inteligencia Artificial para la Transformación de Negocios Centros cursosonline Maestría en Digital Product Management 100% en línea cursosonline Curso Experto Universitario en Escritura, Estilo y Creatividad cursosonline Maestría en Marketing Digital 100% en línea  cursosonline Maestría en Finanzas y Dirección Financiera en línea Francés online cursosingles Mejora tu francés con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfruta de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación.  cursosingles  21 días de prueba gratuita de nuestro curso de francés ‘online’ Inglés online cursosingles Mejore su inglés con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Italiano online cursosingles Mejore su italiano con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Alemán online cursosingles Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online'  cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Crucigramas & Juegos  juegos Crucigramas minis juegos Crucigramas Tarkus juegos Sudokus mini juegos Sopas de letras   Recomendaciones EL PAÍS Cursos Centros  Italiano online Francés online Alemán online Crucigramas & Juegos  Cursos cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados del sector Salud cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Cultura y Humanidades cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Administración de Empresas cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Creatividad y Diseño Centros  cursosonline Maestría Ejecutiva en Marketing Digital y e-Commerce 100% en línea cursosonline Descubre los cursos más demandados del sector Industrial cursosonline Maestría Ejecutiva en Coaching Integral y Organizacional 100% en línea cursosonline Descubre un completo Directorio de Centros de Formación Italiano online cursosingles Mejore su italiano con solo 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Francés online cursosingles Mejore su francés con solo 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Alemán online cursosingles Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online'  cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Crucigramas & Juegos  juegos ¡Disfruta con nuestros Crucigramas para expertos! juegos Resuelve los últimos Crucigramas de Mambrino juegos Juega a nuestros Sudoku para Expertos y mejora día a día tu nivel juegos Juega a las nuevas Sopas de letras clásicas y temáticas de EL PAÍS Abrir You have left X  artículos gratis este mes Subscribe The first month for only 1€ Keep reading without limits Subscribe for 1€ Inicia sesión o regístrate gratis para continuar leyendo en incógnito Regístrate gratis Inicia sesión Suscríbete y lee sin límites Ver opciones de suscripción HOLA Subscribe for € 1 My activity My Subscription My personal data My newsletters Rights and de-registration Events and experiences logout change contrast: Buscar Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA If you want to follow all the latest news without any limits, subscribe to EL PAÍS for just €1 the first month SUBSCRIBE NOW Spain Economy And Business Society Opinion International Culture Sports Science & Tech Travel USA EPS Podcasts Newsletter Follow on:  