Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA International subscribe H HOLA LOG IN International RUSSIAN OFFENSIVE IN UKRAINE How Ukrainians are organizing the resistance against Russian invasion In cities across the country, people have joined defense units, others are making ‘Molotov cocktails’ and networks have sprung up to fix meals for combatants A woman preparing Molotov cocktails in Dnipro on Monday. María R. Sahuquillo María R. Sahuquillo Dnipro - 01 Mar 2022 - 11:45 UTC Semyon loaded several tires on his back and piled them at the doors of an administrative building in Ukraine’s fourth-largest city, Dnipro, which sits on the banks of the Dnieper River. The building was surrounded by sandbags and the entrance was practically blocked by a tank trap. A few feet away, at Heroes of Independence Square, dozens of people were filling glass bottles and cutting wicks to prepare the incendiary weapons known popularly as Molotov cocktails. Near the river, a restaurant was fixing macaroni and cheese for the Ukrainian soldiers and citizen militias. On Monday, Dnipro was getting ready for the arrival of troops sent by Russian President Vladimir Putin, who launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine on Thursday of last week. Its population of one million and central geographical location make Dnipro a strategic communications hub that Russia is attempting to surround in order to prevent the transit of supplies from Poland and to cut off Ukrainian soldiers’ access to the south and to Kyiv . The city was drawing on all its resources to face the enemy: there was an accountant who had joined the territorial defense forces and was now carrying a weapon, an engineer who was volunteering as a driver to ferry supplies around the city, people building barricades, a newly organized network to prepare food, and another group to handle blood donations. En español La población de Ucrania organiza la resistencia contra el invasor ruso It was a scene that is playing out all over Europe’s largest country, where many of its 44 million residents are organizing active resistance networks that have already proven essential in confronting the Russian offensive. Images of civilians facing up to Russian tanks or trying to prevent troops from entering their cities have become increasingly common in the last five days. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy , whose popularity has soared since the start of the invasion, has asked his fellow citizens to help contain the troops’ advance with any means at their disposal, and Dnipro has taken him at his word. Outside the doors of the city’s military hospital, Elena and her husband Alexander were lining up to donate clothes, diapers and food for the sick. Next to them, a 50-year-old woman was carrying a large bag filled with white plastic spoons. “I have a coffee stand and I thought this would be the most useful item,” she said. The military hospital, located in the city center, is designed to treat patients who were injured on the southern and eastern fronts, especially those with serious injuries. There are 400 available beds, but in recent days they’ve had to resort to additional equipment from the recovery rooms, said Sergei Bachinski, the hospital’s deputy director. Health workers from the entire region have been showing up to volunteer as the center deals with an influx of patients. The latter cannot be flown in by helicopter because of the Russian air raids – the wailing sirens have become a permanent sound in recent days – so they are being brought in by road and rail, said Bachinski. Anna Fedicheva, a 37-year-old civil engineer, has offered her spacious car to carry “whatever is necessary.” In Dnipro, just like in many other cities, spontaneous networks have sprung up on social media to help with the logistics of war. Wearing a black cloth facemask featuring a shiny little Christmas tree, Fedicheva explained that she first considered joining the territorial defense forces – civilian militias organized by the Defense Ministry to protect critical infrastructure – but concluded that she was not in the right condition for it. But she didn’t consider leaving Ukraine, either. “I’m trying to think that [the Russians] will not occupy us, I believe in our homeland and in our freedom,” she said. Before this nightmare scenario, Fedicheva was happy with her life. “I liked my job, I went out dancing with friends, to the movies. I led a simple life,” she said. “Sometimes you think it’s all a dream and you’re going to suddenly wake up, but no, it’s real.” The table where Myroslav Malynovski was preparing Molotov cocktails has a counterpart in Lviv, in western Ukraine, where a 28-year-old painter named Kira Shivenko was recently filling bottles, and in the eastern city of Kramatorsk, where a group of youths was preparing the homemade explosive device using a “recipe” that’s been widely shared in recent days on the radio and by many local news outlets. “ Did Putin think we would welcome him with flowers? Well, we’ve got a few welcome drinks ready for him,” said Malynovski, a 65-year-old retiree, as he placed one of the Molotov cocktails inside a cardboard box. “We are not going to flee. This is our country and they are the occupiers. Ukraine is a democratic European country. We will resist to the end.” Arming citizens A restaurant in Dnipro preparing meals for soldiers and militia members with food donated by companies and citizens. María R. Sahuquillo In the Kyiv region alone, around 18,000 weapons have been handed out to civilians, according to the government. President Zelenskiy has also proposed releasing prisoners with military experience if they are willing to join the Ukrainian armed forces. The highly controversial suggestion is a good measure of how desperate the government is: the Ukrainian army is vastly outnumbered and outgunned by Russia. A few days ago, Zelenskiy also invited foreigners to come to fight alongside Ukrainians. “If you have combat experience in Europe, come to our country and defend Europe with us,” he said in a video message. And the day before the invasion, Zelenskiy mobilized 36,000 reservists, 5,000 retired members of the National Guard, and 5,000 more retired members of the Border Police. Arming civilians in such a tense atmosphere could create other types of problems. The Ukrainian government said that Russian saboteurs and paramilitary groups have infiltrated the country, and vehicle checks and arrests have become routine. On the second day of the military offensive , when the scope of the aggression had become evident, 60-year-old Oleg Trubnikov showed up at the reservist quarters in Kramatorsk, in the southeastern Donetsk region where pro-Russian separatists have controlled part of the territory for years. Dozens of other men were already standing in line to receive instructions. Trubnikov had not been marshaled because he has a disability, but he said that he had experience in the Soviet army that might prove useful for Ukraine at this time. “Or I could help in any other way,” he said. “I am here to defend Ukraine from the Russians. It’s the least I can do.” In Dnipro, the restaurant that Maxim Shanin runs in the city center is part of a newly created network of 11 local establishments that are fixing meals for soldiers and members of the militias. The network was preparing breakfast, lunch and dinner for 4,000 people a day, said Shanin. His trendy venue, decorated in a typical hipster-slash-industrial style, was now filled with potato sacks, oil bottles and pasta packages. Inside the kitchen, a team of cooks was preparing the food that other volunteers were placing inside plastic bags with a smiley face and a message that said: “Thank you for your work.” Around 250 people have volunteered for the project, said Shanin. “Each one of us is contributing our grain of sand. This situation has united us more than ever against the aggressor. Citizens want to work together to help the army, the government, the president. Some can go fight with their own hands, and others cannot. What we do here is cook, and we will do so until victory.” English version by Susana Urra . Comments Rules More information Anne Applebaum: ‘We need to remove Russian money and influence from all of our political systems’ El País Kyiv: A besieged and deserted city Jorge Said | Kyiv Adheres to More information newsletter Sign up to EL PAÍS in English Edition bulletin Most viewed Why millennials are the new online dinosaurs European Medicines Agency warns of deaths due to prolonged use of drugs combining codeine and ibuprofen Calista Flockhart: the return of the misunderstood star who prioritized family over Hollywood glamor Rare diamond destined for a jewelry store has precious geological value Liv Tyler: Why the actress who was born to be a star turned her back on Hollywood Recomendaciones EL PAÍS Cursos Centros Francés online Inglés online Italiano online Alemán online Crucigramas & Juegos Cursos cursos Maestría en línea en Dirección de Marketing y Gestión Comercial cursos Maestría en línea en Administración y Dirección de Empresas cursos Maestría en línea en Business Administration cursos Maestría en línea en Inteligencia Artificial para la Transformación de Negocios Centros cursosonline Maestría en Digital Product Management 100% en línea cursosonline Curso Experto Universitario en Escritura, Estilo y Creatividad cursosonline Maestría en Marketing Digital 100% en línea cursosonline Maestría en Finanzas y Dirección Financiera en línea Francés online cursosingles Mejora tu francés con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfruta de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita de nuestro curso de francés ‘online’ Inglés online cursosingles Mejore su inglés con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Italiano online cursosingles Mejore su italiano con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Alemán online cursosingles Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online' cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Crucigramas & Juegos juegos Crucigramas minis juegos Crucigramas Tarkus juegos Sudokus mini juegos Sopas de letras Recomendaciones EL PAÍS Cursos Centros Italiano online Francés online Alemán online Crucigramas & Juegos Cursos cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados del sector Salud cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Cultura y Humanidades cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Administración de Empresas cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Creatividad y Diseño Centros cursosonline Maestría Ejecutiva en Marketing Digital y e-Commerce 100% en línea cursosonline Descubre los cursos más demandados del sector Industrial cursosonline Maestría Ejecutiva en Coaching Integral y Organizacional 100% en línea cursosonline Descubre un completo Directorio de Centros de Formación Italiano online cursosingles Mejore su italiano con solo 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Francés online cursosingles Mejore su francés con solo 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Alemán online cursosingles Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online' cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Crucigramas & Juegos juegos ¡Disfruta con nuestros Crucigramas para expertos! juegos Resuelve los últimos Crucigramas de Mambrino juegos Juega a nuestros Sudoku para Expertos y mejora día a día tu nivel juegos Juega a las nuevas Sopas de letras clásicas y temáticas de EL PAÍS Abrir You have left X artículos gratis este mes Subscribe The first month for only 1€ Keep reading without limits Subscribe for 1€ Inicia sesión o regístrate gratis para continuar leyendo en incógnito Regístrate gratis Inicia sesión Suscríbete y lee sin límites Ver opciones de suscripción HOLA Subscribe for € 1 My activity My Subscription My personal data My newsletters Rights and de-registration Events and experiences logout change contrast: Buscar Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA If you want to follow all the latest news without any limits, subscribe to EL PAÍS for just €1 the first month SUBSCRIBE NOW Spain Economy And Business Society Opinion International Culture Sports Science & Tech Travel USA EPS Podcasts Newsletter Follow on: Comments Rules Log into El País to participate I already have a subscription