Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA Opinion subscribe H HOLA LOG IN Opinion RUSSIAN OFFENSIVE IN UKRAINE Tribune i Opinion articles written in the style of their author." These texts are to be based on verified facts and must be respectful towards people, even though their actions may be criticized. shall feature, along with the author's name (regardless of their greater or lesser renown), a footer stating their office, academic title, political affiliation (if any) and main occupation, or the occupation related to the topic being assessed NATO can help Ukraine win this war without doing the fighting The alliance has both a moral and strategic obligation to act. Doing too little, as is the case now, presents the unacceptable risk that Russia will subjugate the country The crew of the Canadian frigate ‘Halifax’ prepare to set sail to join the NATO mission in eastern Europe. Andrew Vaughan (AP) Fabrice Pothier 22 Mar 2022 - 16:54 UTC The North Atlantic Alliance was created with two basic purposes: prevent a major war in Europe, and, should this fail, manage escalation. Sadly, with the war in Ukraine, it has failed on both counts. Would it not be for the fortitude of the Ukrainian people and the support of some allies, Russian troops would be massed by now at the NATO border with missiles angrily pointed at its cities. NATO leaders meeting next week have the opportunity to redeem the alliance and help Ukrainians end the war on favorable terms. They can do that without direct involvement in the fight. But they will have to break free from two self-defeating dogmas: the alliance’s collective defense starts and ends with its territory and any action would be escalatory and lead to World War III. Crucially this must start with NATO leaders correcting a strategic blunder: letting Vladimir Putin’s nuclear saber-rattling go unchecked. A lonely Putin sitting 10 meters away from his defense minister and chief of general staff instructing them to put Russian nuclear forces on high combat readiness will be one of the defining, if macabre, images of this war. If the message was loud and clear, NATO’s response was worryingly muted. Apart from a curt reply from French Foreign Minister Le Drian reminding Putin that “NATO, too, is a nuclear power.” The thinking, especially in Washington DC, seems to be that the best answer is to ignore Putin’s nuclear saber-rattling. Yet the reckless raid of Russian forces against Ukraine’s (and Europe’s) largest nuclear power plant shows that Putin’s nuclear signaling should be taken seriously. More information The dictator in his mousetrap Not pushing back and re-establishing some strategic balance in the nuclear rhetoric is letting Putin set a very dangerous precedent. What will stop him from brandishing and potentially using nuclear weapons the next time he sets his mind on another piece of European territory? This is not only concerning for Europe. Some allies in the Indo-Pacific must wonder what will be the US response if China were to use Putin’s nuclear playbook to grab some islets. In response, NATO leaders need to use their collective voice to say three things: NATO is a nuclear alliance. It has no intention of using nuclear weapons in this conflict. However, the use of nuclear weapons will fundamentally change the nature of the conflict with devastating consequences for all. This simple but unequivocal language should help NATO re-draw a red line. The same applies to chemical weapons or any other Weapons of Mass Destruction for that matter. Second, NATO allies must amplify the quantity and quality of the arms shipped to the Ukrainian forces. The war is reaching its zenith. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy needs to resist and increase the cost of Putin’s campaign. This must start with the big Allies, especially the Western European ones, to significantly increase their arms shipments. If Northern and Central European Allies are in their third or even fourth wave of arms shipment, Western European Allies are laggards. This imbalance poses a double risk of sowing divisions among the allies – Eastern allies increasingly feeling they are taking on a disproportionate burden – but also of weakening critical arms supply at a time when Zelenskiy needs to strengthen his position both militarily and diplomatically. Related to that, the quality of those shipments must also evolve as the tactics in the war have changed: the Russians are increasingly using their air force and missiles to cause indiscriminate destruction and death. After having failed to decapitate the government, Putin’s military campaign now seeks to bring the Ukrainian population to its knees. Against that, the Ukrainian forces need more means to shoot down Russian fighter jets and missiles and protect key population centers and infrastructures, especially in Western Ukraine. They need medium-range air defense capabilities such as the Russian-made S-300, which Greece, Bulgaria and Slovakia use. The US with its Patriots system and others like France, Italy and the UK, which have equivalent medium-range systems, could back-fill those frontline allies. Providing those defensive capabilities to the Ukrainian forces will give them a fair chance against Putin’s war machine and help them create a sanctuary in Western Ukraine’s airspace. It will be less controversial and logistically complicated to operate than providing fighter jets but could make a real punitive dent on Russian air and rocket forces. What is the value of a collective defense if an ever-larger part of the European continent is under occupation and in open conflict with Russia? Waiting and making grand statements without increasing the military pressure on Putin would also reduce the chance of success on the diplomatic front. Now that Zelenskiy has signaled his willingness to not seek NATO membership, this has also made NATO’s involvement less of a red flag. NATO leaders should ask the alliance’s commanders to update plans for assuring continuous access to the Black and Baltic seas as well as for cyber plans to actively protect NATO infrastructures. In coded words, these steps will send a clear message to Moscow: we are ready to increase the pressure in critical domains for Russia. Those decisions are not risk-free, but they all stay below the threshold of direct military involvement. NATO has both a moral and strategic obligation to act. Doing too little, as is the case now, presents the unacceptable risk of a subjugated Ukraine, and a Vladimir Putin ready for his next revanchist move. Failure will also have long-lasting consequences for the credibility and the very purpose of the alliance. Indeed, what is the value of rock solid collective defense if an ever-larger part of the European continent is under occupation and in open conflict with Russia? Putin has never been closer to failure. What started as an attempt at blitz regime change in Ukraine could well end up triggering a long-drawn out regime change in Russia itself. Even if NATO is not directly in the fight, it is a war that can be won or lost based on our decisions. Fabrice Pothier is a senior defence consulting fellow at the International Institute of Strategic Affairs and a contributor of Agenda Pública. More information The economic landscape after the war Ángel Ubide Russian central bank warns of production bottlenecks as it struggles with sanctions El País | Madrid Adheres to More information newsletter Sign up to EL PAÍS in English Edition bulletin Recomendaciones EL PAÍS Cursos Centros Francés online Inglés online Italiano online Alemán online Crucigramas & Juegos Cursos cursos Maestría en línea en Dirección de Marketing y Gestión Comercial cursos Maestría en línea en Administración y Dirección de Empresas cursos Maestría en línea en Business Administration cursos Maestría en línea en Inteligencia Artificial para la Transformación de Negocios Centros cursosonline Maestría en Digital Product Management 100% en línea cursosonline Curso Experto Universitario en Escritura, Estilo y Creatividad cursosonline Maestría en Marketing Digital 100% en línea cursosonline Maestría en Finanzas y Dirección Financiera en línea Francés online cursosingles Mejora tu francés con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfruta de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita de nuestro curso de francés ‘online’ Inglés online cursosingles Mejore su inglés con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Italiano online cursosingles Mejore su italiano con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Alemán online cursosingles Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online' cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Crucigramas & Juegos juegos Crucigramas minis juegos Crucigramas Tarkus juegos Sudokus mini juegos Sopas de letras Recomendaciones EL PAÍS Cursos Centros Italiano online Francés online Alemán online Crucigramas & Juegos Cursos cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados del sector Salud cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Cultura y Humanidades cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Administración de Empresas cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Creatividad y Diseño Centros cursosonline Maestría Ejecutiva en Marketing Digital y e-Commerce 100% en línea cursosonline Descubre los cursos más demandados del sector Industrial cursosonline Maestría Ejecutiva en Coaching Integral y Organizacional 100% en línea cursosonline Descubre un completo Directorio de Centros de Formación Italiano online cursosingles Mejore su italiano con solo 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Francés online cursosingles Mejore su francés con solo 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Alemán online cursosingles Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online' cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Crucigramas & Juegos juegos ¡Disfruta con nuestros Crucigramas para expertos! juegos Resuelve los últimos Crucigramas de Mambrino juegos Juega a nuestros Sudoku para Expertos y mejora día a día tu nivel juegos Juega a las nuevas Sopas de letras clásicas y temáticas de EL PAÍS Abrir You have left X artículos gratis este mes Subscribe The first month for only 1€ Keep reading without limits Subscribe for 1€ Inicia sesión o regístrate gratis para continuar leyendo en incógnito Regístrate gratis Inicia sesión Suscríbete y lee sin límites Ver opciones de suscripción HOLA Subscribe for € 1 My activity My Subscription My personal data My newsletters Rights and de-registration Events and experiences logout change contrast: Buscar Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA If you want to follow all the latest news without any limits, subscribe to EL PAÍS for just €1 the first month SUBSCRIBE NOW Spain Economy And Business Society Opinion International Culture Sports Science & Tech Travel USA EPS Podcasts Newsletter Follow on: 