Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA subscribe H HOLA LOG IN RUSSIAN OFFENSIVE AGAINST UKRAINE Russia’s Kinzhal hypersonic missile: What is it and how does it work? Moscow has confirmed it has used ‘new generation’ weapons in the war on Ukraine, which are capable of hitting targets at over 1,200 miles and carrying nuclear payloads Patricia R. Blanco Madrid - 23 Mar 2022 - 03:09 UTC A screengrab of a video published by the Russian Ministry of Defense showing a Kinzhal missile strike in Ukraine last Saturday. The Russian Ministry of Defense has stated that it deployed hypersonic missiles to attack objectives in Ukraine last weekend. The first use in the ongoing war of this kind of weapon, which was confirmed by US intelligence, represents a new phase in Russia’s ramping up of its military operations in the conflict given the capabilities of these missiles, known as Kinzhals, which have a range of over 1,200 miles and can carry a nuclear payload. What is a Kinzhal? The Kh-47M2 Kinzhal (which means “dagger” in Russian) is a Russian-made nuclear capable hypersonic aero-ballistic air-to-surface missile, which is able to perform evasive maneuvers in flight. A Kinzhal is eight meters long and can reach Mach 10, which is 10 times faster than the speed of sound (Mach 5 to Mach 10 speeds are classified as hypersonic). The missile weighs 9,500 pounds (4,300 kilograms) and can carry a conventional or nuclear payload of up to 1,110 lb (480kg), according to the Center for Strategic and International studies. A July 2018 report by the Russian TASS news agency suggested that a Kinzhal can achieve a range of over 1,800 miles (2,000 km) if launched from a Tupolev Tu-22M strategic bomber. More information From ‘biological weapons’ to ‘pro-Nazi’ Ukraine: How Putin is trying to justify the war Can Kinzhals be intercepted by anti-missile systems? Once launched, a Kinzhal rapidly achieves Mach 4 (3,000 miles per hour) and can reach speeds of up to Mach 10 (7,600mph). These speeds, combined with the missile’s erratic flight trajectory and its extreme maneuverability, make interception extremely difficult. When did Russia develop the Kinzhal? The Kinzhal was one of six “new generation” weapons unveiled by Vladimir Putin during a speech on March 1, 2018, when the Russian president said it was Moscow’s response to the US’s decision in 2002 to abandon the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty, a bilateral agreement between the Soviet Union and US and considered the cornerstone of the mutual containment system. Putin said Kinzhals had already been installed in Russia’s southern military district, an area that includes the Black Sea. A few days later, on March 11, Russian media published images of a test launch of a Kinzhal from a modified supersonic MiG-31. Although the video did not show the missile’s final impact, the Russian Ministry of Defense described the test a “success.” ▫️Destruction of a weapons depot of the Armed Forces of Ukraine by high-precision missile weapons strike. We can see the exact hit of an underground hangar with weapons and ammunition. pic.twitter.com/sKTF46Tdb0 — Минобороны России (@mod_russia) March 19, 2022 Have Kinzhals been used in combat? The Russian Ministry of Defense said on Saturday that Moscow had used a hypersonic Kinzhal missile for the first time, in order to destroy “a large underground warehouse of missiles and aviation ammunition” in Deliatyn, eastern Ukraine. On Sunday, the Kremlin said it deployed further Kinzhals in an attack on a military base in the Zhytomyr region in northwestern Ukraine, near the border with Belarus. Moscow said that the base was hosting “over 100 Ukrainian special forces personnel and foreign mercenaries.” US officials including President Joe Biden, quoted by CNN, confirmed that Russia had deployed hypersonic missiles for the first time in combat. “In all likelihood, they intended to test the weapons and to send a message to the West,” the sources said. What are the implications of Russia’s use of hypersonic missiles? US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin on Sunday said he did not see the use of Kinzhal missiles in the Russia-Ukraine war as a “game-changer,” despite Saturday’s launches hitting targets just 180 miles (300km) from the Polish border and NATO territory. “I think the reason he is resorting to using these types of weapons is because he is trying to re-establish some momentum,” Austin said of Putin on CBS’ “Face the Nation” program last Sunday. “We’ve seen him attack towns and cities and civilians outright. We expect to see that continue. But I don’t think that this in and of itself will be a game changer.” What the Pentagon chief did say would constitute a “very serious step” on Russia’s part would be the use of chemical or biological weapons. I think if a chemical or biological weapon was used, you would see a significant reaction from not only the United States, but also the global community,” Austin said. English version by Rob Train. More information The economic landscape after the war Ángel Ubide Russian central bank warns of production bottlenecks as it struggles with sanctions El País | Madrid Adheres to More information newsletter Sign up to EL PAÍS in English Edition bulletin Most viewed European Medicines Agency warns of deaths due to prolonged use of drugs combining codeine and ibuprofen Why millennials are the new online dinosaurs Rare diamond destined for a jewelry store has precious geological value Calista Flockhart: the return of the misunderstood star who prioritized family over Hollywood glamor Texas executes John Henry Ramirez, the inmate who asked to die holding his pastor’s hand Recomendaciones EL PAÍS Cursos Centros Francés online Inglés online Italiano online Alemán online Crucigramas & Juegos Cursos cursos Maestría en línea en Dirección de Marketing y Gestión Comercial cursos Maestría en línea en Administración y Dirección de Empresas cursos Maestría en línea en Business Administration cursos Maestría en línea en Inteligencia Artificial para la Transformación de Negocios Centros cursosonline Maestría en Digital Product Management 100% en línea cursosonline Curso Experto Universitario en Escritura, Estilo y Creatividad cursosonline Maestría en Marketing Digital 100% en línea cursosonline Maestría en Finanzas y Dirección Financiera en línea Francés online cursosingles Mejora tu francés con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfruta de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita de nuestro curso de francés ‘online’ Inglés online cursosingles Mejore su inglés con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Italiano online cursosingles Mejore su italiano con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Alemán online cursosingles Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online' cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Crucigramas & Juegos juegos Crucigramas minis juegos Crucigramas Tarkus juegos Sudokus mini juegos Sopas de letras Recomendaciones EL PAÍS Cursos Centros Italiano online Francés online Alemán online Crucigramas & Juegos Cursos cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados del sector Salud cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Cultura y Humanidades cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Administración de Empresas cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Creatividad y Diseño Centros cursosonline Maestría Ejecutiva en Marketing Digital y e-Commerce 100% en línea cursosonline Descubre los cursos más demandados del sector Industrial cursosonline Maestría Ejecutiva en Coaching Integral y Organizacional 100% en línea cursosonline Descubre un completo Directorio de Centros de Formación Italiano online cursosingles Mejore su italiano con solo 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Francés online cursosingles Mejore su francés con solo 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Alemán online cursosingles Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online' cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Crucigramas & Juegos juegos ¡Disfruta con nuestros Crucigramas para expertos! juegos Resuelve los últimos Crucigramas de Mambrino juegos Juega a nuestros Sudoku para Expertos y mejora día a día tu nivel juegos Juega a las nuevas Sopas de letras clásicas y temáticas de EL PAÍS Abrir You have left X artículos gratis este mes Subscribe The first month for only 1€ Keep reading without limits Subscribe for 1€ Inicia sesión o regístrate gratis para continuar leyendo en incógnito Regístrate gratis Inicia sesión Suscríbete y lee sin límites Ver opciones de suscripción HOLA Subscribe for € 1 My activity My Subscription My personal data My newsletters Rights and de-registration Events and experiences logout change contrast: Buscar Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA If you want to follow all the latest news without any limits, subscribe to EL PAÍS for just €1 the first month SUBSCRIBE NOW Spain Economy And Business Society Opinion International Culture Sports Science & Tech Travel USA EPS Podcasts Newsletter Follow on: 