Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA International subscribe H HOLA LOG IN International RUSSIAN OFFENSIVE IN UKRAINE Deaths of Russian generals reveal weak points of Kremlin’s strategy in Ukraine The number of troops who have died in the war is much higher than what is being reported by Russia, with some estimates putting the figure in the thousands El País 24 Mar 2022 - 03:01 UTC An image of a burnt-out Russian tank in Kyiv provided by the Ukrainian government. - (AFP) If removing the leadership of an enemy force is one of the basic goals in war, then the Russian offensive in Ukraine may be in trouble. The Ukrainian government says that it has killed at least five Russian generals and a handful of commanders, while some estimate that thousands of Russian troops have died in the conflict. It’s a heavy toll for a campaign the Kremlin described as “surgical,” even though nearly a month has passed since it launched its first attack. Russian President Vladimir Putin, however, has claimed that “ everything is going to plan. ” The most recent Russian officer to be killed in combat was Andrei Nikolayevich Palii, the deputy commander of the Black Sea Fleet. According to the Ukrainian government, the officer was killed by a sniper. In a message on Telegram, Mikhail Razvojaev, the governor of Sevastopol in Crimea, described Palii as an “open and honest man” and a “true officer of a military dynasty” who had “great authority over the fleet.” More information Russia’s Kinzhal hypersonic missile: What is it and how does it work? Palii was born in Kyiv, the capital of Ukraine, in 1971, but after the breakup of the USSR he decided to serve in the Russian military, even acting as deputy commander in Russia’s armed forces in Syria in 2020. According to the Russian news outlet Forpost, Palii had been tasked with ensuring the humanitarian corridor in Mariupol, which has become one of the main fronts of the war. The first death of a high-ranking officer to be recognized by the Kremlin was Russian Major General Andrey Sukhovetsky, who was appointed deputy army commander of the 41st division. Born in 1974, Sukhovetsky had received two Orders of Courage and the Order of Military Merit. His death, which was announced by Ukraine on March 1, was confirmed by a local officers’ organization in the Krasnodar region in southern Russia. Even Putin confirmed in a speech that he had died. The death of the other three high-ranking officers, however, has neither been confirmed nor denied by the Kremlin. Major General Vitaly Gerasimov, chief of staff of Russia’s 41st combined army, died on March 7, according to the Ukrainian government. The investigative journalism site Bellingcat – which is declared a foreign agent by Russia – published a recording in which two members of Russia’s Federal Security Service (FSB) allegedly lament that the officer had been killed because their lines of communication in Ukraine were no longer secure. But when asked about Gerasimov by Reuters, Russia’s Defense Ministry declined to comment. The Kremlin has also not officially confirmed the death of Major General Andrei Kolesnikov, of the 29th combined army, who was killed in Kyiv on March 11, according to Ukrainian Interior Ministry adviser Anton Gerashchenko. This satellite image provided by Maxar Technologies shows burning buildings at Livoberezhnyi district in Mariupol on March 22. AP Four days later, Gerashchenko also announced on Telegram that Ukraine’s Azov battalion had killed another Russian general major. An image of the victim was included in the message, but there was no mention of the officer’s name, nor division, and his face was covered with different documents with alleged military insignia. Nearly a dozen Russian colonels have also been killed in the fighting , including Sergei Sukharev, of the 331st Guards Parachute Assault Regiment, who died with four other officers on March 17, according to regional Russian TV. As Russia’s efforts to advance forward are frustrated, officers may be facing greater personal risk. According to the Russian news agency Bashinform, one commander was killed in a mortar attack while personally helping to build a crossing. In addition to the deaths in combat, eight high-ranking military officers have also been removed from their posts, according to sources from the Ukrainian government. While media outlets are trying to verify this information, the dismissal of General Roman Gavrilov, the deputy director of Rosgvardia, the National Guard of Russia, has been confirmed. Russian authorities claim the general was dismissed because his length of service had come to an end. But Russian newspaper Kommersant reported that he could have led the National Guard for another 20 years. As well as the death of the generals, this sudden change to the military hierarchy is another sign that the war against Ukraine is not going according to plan, despite Putin’s claims. What’s more, estimates suggest that the real death toll of Russian troops is much higher than what is being reported by the Kremlin. The Russian Defense Ministry said on March 2 that 498 soldiers had died, but since then has made no further comment. The New York Times , however, estimated on February 16 that between 3,000 and 7,000 Russian troops may have been killed. While Russian newspaper Komsomólskaya Pravda reported online that 9,861 soldiers had died in combat and another 16,153 had been injured. These figures were quickly removed from the site, but The Wall Street Journal took a screenshot of the report before it disappeared. English version by Melissa Kitson . More information Russia’s Kinzhal hypersonic missile: What is it and how does it work? Patricia R. Blanco | Madrid NATO can help Ukraine win this war without doing the fighting Fabrice Pothier Adheres to More information newsletter Sign up to EL PAÍS in English Edition bulletin Most viewed European Medicines Agency warns of deaths due to prolonged use of drugs combining codeine and ibuprofen Why millennials are the new online dinosaurs Rare diamond destined for a jewelry store has precious geological value Calista Flockhart: the return of the misunderstood star who prioritized family over Hollywood glamor Texas executes John Henry Ramirez, the inmate who asked to die holding his pastor’s hand Recomendaciones EL PAÍS Cursos Centros Francés online Inglés online Italiano online Alemán online Crucigramas & Juegos Cursos cursos Maestría en línea en Dirección de Marketing y Gestión Comercial cursos Maestría en línea en Administración y Dirección de Empresas cursos Maestría en línea en Business Administration cursos Maestría en línea en Inteligencia Artificial para la Transformación de Negocios Centros cursosonline Maestría en Digital Product Management 100% en línea cursosonline Curso Experto Universitario en Escritura, Estilo y Creatividad cursosonline Maestría en Marketing Digital 100% en línea cursosonline Maestría en Finanzas y Dirección Financiera en línea Francés online cursosingles Mejora tu francés con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfruta de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita de nuestro curso de francés ‘online’ Inglés online cursosingles Mejore su inglés con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Italiano online cursosingles Mejore su italiano con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Alemán online cursosingles Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online' cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Crucigramas & Juegos juegos Crucigramas minis juegos Crucigramas Tarkus juegos Sudokus mini juegos Sopas de letras Recomendaciones EL PAÍS Cursos Centros Italiano online Francés online Alemán online Crucigramas & Juegos Cursos cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados del sector Salud cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Cultura y Humanidades cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Administración de Empresas cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Creatividad y Diseño Centros cursosonline Maestría Ejecutiva en Marketing Digital y e-Commerce 100% en línea cursosonline Descubre los cursos más demandados del sector Industrial cursosonline Maestría Ejecutiva en Coaching Integral y Organizacional 100% en línea cursosonline Descubre un completo Directorio de Centros de Formación Italiano online cursosingles Mejore su italiano con solo 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Francés online cursosingles Mejore su francés con solo 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Alemán online cursosingles Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online' cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Crucigramas & Juegos juegos ¡Disfruta con nuestros Crucigramas para expertos! juegos Resuelve los últimos Crucigramas de Mambrino juegos Juega a nuestros Sudoku para Expertos y mejora día a día tu nivel juegos Juega a las nuevas Sopas de letras clásicas y temáticas de EL PAÍS Abrir You have left X artículos gratis este mes Subscribe The first month for only 1€ Keep reading without limits Subscribe for 1€ Inicia sesión o regístrate gratis para continuar leyendo en incógnito Regístrate gratis Inicia sesión Suscríbete y lee sin límites Ver opciones de suscripción HOLA Subscribe for € 1 My activity My Subscription My personal data My newsletters Rights and de-registration Events and experiences logout change contrast: Buscar Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA If you want to follow all the latest news without any limits, subscribe to EL PAÍS for just €1 the first month SUBSCRIBE NOW Spain Economy And Business Society Opinion International Culture Sports Science & Tech Travel USA EPS Podcasts Newsletter Follow on: 