Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA International subscribe H HOLA LOG IN International RUSSIAN INVASION OF UKRAINE Opinion i Text in which the author defends ideas and reaches conclusions based on his / her interpretation of facts and data First seen as safe havens, cities in eastern Ukraine have become mousetraps EL PAÍS journalist Margaryta Yakovenko has relatives in a town that is being besieged by Russian troops. Their daily phone calls reflect the struggle for survival without water, electricity or medicines People take shelter inside a building in Mariupol, Ukraine. Evgeniy Maloletka (AP) Margaryta Yakovenko 02 Mar 2022 - 12:41 UTC My family has had no electricity, no heating and no internet connection for three days now because Russian soldiers have destroyed all the infrastructure of the city in eastern Ukraine where they tried to take refuge from the war. It is very hard to find cellphone reception. My aunt allows herself one call a day, in the morning, when she provides us with a veritable war report: “They’ve been shooting at night. We’ve been hiding in the hallway where there are no windows. We are all right.” The rest of the time, she turns off the phone to preserve the battery. If it dies, we don’t know when they’ll be able to charge it again. The war report on Tuesday was especially tough. After three days, the city’s water deposits are emptying out, and because there is no electricity they cannot be refilled. Local residents are starting to panic after enduring gunshots and seeing Russian tanks on their streets for three days. Besides, misfortunes never come singly, so as if the war wasn’t enough, my uncle, aunt and cousin have also been dealing with fever, headaches and sore throats. If they were here, I’d tell them to get a pharmacy test because it might be Covid-19 . But it doesn’t make any sense to tell them that: in their town, pharmacies are closed because all products were sold out days ago, even over-the-counter pain relievers. En español Las ciudades del este de Ucrania se han convertido en ratoneras The possibility of fleeing has gone out like a weak flame on a candle. The city is surrounded and soldiers are advancing in deadly, unstoppable columns that stretch for miles; nobody dares jump in a car and try to escape. Having no electricity and no internet makes the situation even tenser, because the only thing you are aware of is the tanks rolling down the streets, the bursts of gunshots, the night bombings and the air raid sirens – if there are any. You don’t know whether Ukraine is still putting up resistance or whether it has fallen already. You don’t know whether the next town over is safer than yours, or whether it lies in ruins. On day six of the war, all certainties are beginning to fade. Yet one thing seems increasingly clear: the small cities and villages did not turn out to be safe havens as many initially thought, but mousetraps instead. It is impossible to stay safe in a country that is immersed in a complete war . If my aunt has taken on the role of conveying daily information from the frontline, my uncle has decided – and I’m not sure whether he’s being brave or has simply lost all hope – to go out once a day to get water or to check on my grandmother, who is staying in an apartment at the other end of town. After fleeing the city of Mariupol on day one of the invasion with a couple of large water bottles, the entire contents of their fridge and a bag with underwear, they managed to get hold of 20 liters of gasoline. That same day, gas stations ran out of fuel and it is currently impossible to fill the tank. Without electricity, daily household appliances become absolutely useless. You can’t take a shower, make coffee or grab a yogurt from the refrigerator. My relatives have started to salt their meat so it won’t spoil. Now there’s a sentence I never thought I would write in the year 2022. I never thought I would one day be writing about the fact that my family members are going hungry and cold in Europe as they hide from Russian missiles in hallways, basements and bathtubs. On the sixth day after the start of the war, any news about my family is anticipated and valued as though it were the most expensive jewel on the planet. It’s never positive news, but if it arrives, it means that they’re alive. English version by Susana Urra . Comments Rules More information How Ukrainians are organizing the resistance against Russian invasion María R. Sahuquillo | Dnipro Anne Applebaum: ‘We need to remove Russian money and influence from all of our political systems’ El País Adheres to More information newsletter Sign up to EL PAÍS in English Edition bulletin Most viewed Why millennials are the new online dinosaurs European Medicines Agency warns of deaths due to prolonged use of drugs combining codeine and ibuprofen Calista Flockhart: the return of the misunderstood star who prioritized family over Hollywood glamor Rare diamond destined for a jewelry store has precious geological value Liv Tyler: Why the actress who was born to be a star turned her back on Hollywood Recomendaciones EL PAÍS Cursos Centros Francés online Inglés online Italiano online Alemán online Crucigramas & Juegos Cursos cursos Maestría en línea en Dirección de Marketing y Gestión Comercial cursos Maestría en línea en Administración y Dirección de Empresas cursos Maestría en línea en Business Administration cursos Maestría en línea en Inteligencia Artificial para la Transformación de Negocios Centros cursosonline Maestría en Digital Product Management 100% en línea cursosonline Curso Experto Universitario en Escritura, Estilo y Creatividad cursosonline Maestría en Marketing Digital 100% en línea cursosonline Maestría en Finanzas y Dirección Financiera en línea Francés online cursosingles Mejora tu francés con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfruta de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita de nuestro curso de francés ‘online’ Inglés online cursosingles Mejore su inglés con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Italiano online cursosingles Mejore su italiano con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Alemán online cursosingles Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online' cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Crucigramas & Juegos juegos Crucigramas minis juegos Crucigramas Tarkus juegos Sudokus mini juegos Sopas de letras Recomendaciones EL PAÍS Cursos Centros Italiano online Francés online Alemán online Crucigramas & Juegos Cursos cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados del sector Salud cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Cultura y Humanidades cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Administración de Empresas cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Creatividad y Diseño Centros cursosonline Maestría Ejecutiva en Marketing Digital y e-Commerce 100% en línea cursosonline Descubre los cursos más demandados del sector Industrial cursosonline Maestría Ejecutiva en Coaching Integral y Organizacional 100% en línea cursosonline Descubre un completo Directorio de Centros de Formación Italiano online cursosingles Mejore su italiano con solo 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Francés online cursosingles Mejore su francés con solo 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Alemán online cursosingles Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online' cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Crucigramas & Juegos juegos ¡Disfruta con nuestros Crucigramas para expertos! juegos Resuelve los últimos Crucigramas de Mambrino juegos Juega a nuestros Sudoku para Expertos y mejora día a día tu nivel juegos Juega a las nuevas Sopas de letras clásicas y temáticas de EL PAÍS Abrir You have left X artículos gratis este mes Subscribe The first month for only 1€ Keep reading without limits Subscribe for 1€ Inicia sesión o regístrate gratis para continuar leyendo en incógnito Regístrate gratis Inicia sesión Suscríbete y lee sin límites Ver opciones de suscripción HOLA Subscribe for € 1 My activity My Subscription My personal data My newsletters Rights and de-registration Events and experiences logout change contrast: Buscar Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA If you want to follow all the latest news without any limits, subscribe to EL PAÍS for just €1 the first month SUBSCRIBE NOW Spain Economy And Business Society Opinion International Culture Sports Science & Tech Travel USA EPS Podcasts Newsletter Follow on: Comments Rules Log into El País to participate I already have a subscription