Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA International subscribe H HOLA LOG IN International INTERNATIONAL Russian spy detected in Catalonia accused of poisoning Bulgarian arms dealer General Denis Sergeev, who is linked to the elite military group Unit 29155, is being investigated by Spain’s High Court for two visits he made to Barcelona ahead of the illegal referendum on Catalan independence Joaquín Gil José María Irujo Madrid - 19 Feb 2020 - 14:20 UTC Image of Denis Sergeev in 1999 taken from a documentary on the battle for Alilen. The public prosecutor in the Bulgarian capital of Sofia has accused General Denis Sergeev – a Russian spy who traveled to Barcelona two days before the October 1, 2017 unauthorized referendum on Catalan independence – of the attempted murder of Bulgarian arms dealer Emilian Gebrev, his son Hristo Gebrev, and an executive of Gebrev’s company Emco Odd, according to intelligence sources consulted by EL PAÍS. The three victims were poisoned after coming into contact with a chemical agent. Emilian Gebrev suffered hallucinations, vomiting and fell into a coma, remaining in hospital for three weeks. The incident took place in Sofia between April 28 and May 4, 2015, according to sources from Sofia’s public prosecutor. Gebrev began to feel unwell, four days after Sergeev arrived in Bulgaria In January this year, the public prosecutor accused three Russian citizens of the attempted murder, but did not reveal their names. A spokesperson from the organization told EL PAÍS that the secrecy was justified given that the country’s laws prohibit information being revealed from an ongoing investigation. The Sofia public prosecutor subsequently issued three European arrest warrants and international arrest warrants with the International Criminal Police Organization (Interpol) in an effort to extradite the three accused Russians to Bulgaria, where they are facing charges of premeditated attempted murder. Spanish police sources maintain that Sergeev is also wanted in at least two other countries where his presence has been detected. The Sofia public prosecutor began to suspect Sergeev’s involvement in the poisoning after reviewing security camera footage of an underground car park from April 28, 2015. The video, which lasts two minutes, shows a man approaching a vehicle. According to the public prosecutor, “an FBI laboratory was tasked with doing an expert study to identify the person implicated in the crime.” Bulgaria acusa de tres intentos de asesinato al espía ruso detectado en Cataluña Security camera footage of the underground car park. Dressed in a hat and gloves, the figure in the video loiters near the car of one of the victims. Investigators believe that the suspect applied a chemical agent to the vehicle in an effort to kill the arms dealer Emilian Gebrev. Sergeev uses the false name Sergey Fedotov, and has been connected to dozens of destabilization operations in Europe and Asia. The agent, who is linked to the elite Russian military unit known as “Unit 29155,” is also on the radar of Spanish investigators . Last year, Judge Manuel García-Castellón of Spain’s High Court, the Audiencia Nacional, opened a sealed probe into the role the spy played while he was in Barcelona. As this newspaper revealed , Sergeev traveled to the Catalan capital on at least two occasions – on November 5, 2016 and on September 29, 2017, just days before the illegal referendum on Catalan independence . According to the investigative website Bellingcat , with which EL PAÍS collaborates, eight agents from Russia’s Main Intelligence Directorate (GRU, as it is known in Russian by its initials) were involved in the attempted murder of Gebrev, his son and the head of the Emco Odd production department. The Russian spies had traveled to Bulgaria using false names during the period in which the victims were poisoned. At the end of April, 2015, Sergeev and his colleague Georgy Gorshkov arrived as tourists at a hotel complex in the city of Burgas, on the coast of the Black Sea. Another spy from the unit, Sergey Pavlov, arrived the same day in Sofia. Four days after the Russians arrived, Gebrev began to feel unwell. The arms dealer initially thought he was suffering from tiredness and the flu, but he then began to feel a burning sensation, dizziness and blurred vision. He was taken to a military hospital in Sofia, where he fell into a coma. His son Hristo and the Emco Odd business executive also fell ill, and were taken to the same hospital, where the three remained for more than three weeks. A month after being admitted to hospital, Gebrev and his son began having the same symptoms. According to Bellingcat, a urine test revealed that their bodies contained traces of two organophosphates, a toxic substance linked to pesticides. According to ‘The New York Times,’ Unit 29155 is working to destabilize Europe Sergeev and Gorshkov left Bulgaria the day after the first poisoning attempt. They flew first to the Istanbul Atatürk Airport in Turkey and then to Moscow. Pavlov returned to the Russian capital on a direct flight. When former Russian spy Sergey Skripal and his daughter Yulia were poisoned in the United Kingdom with the nerve agent Novichok in March, 2018 – an operation Western intelligence services attribute to Unit 29155 – Gebrev noted similarities between their symptoms and those he had experienced in 2015. Although Gebrev’s company Emco Odd exported weapons to Georgia during its war with Russia in 2018, the arms dealer told Bellingcat that this was not why he was targeted by the Russian spying unit. According to Gebrev, his company sold less than 10% of all the weapons sold to Georgia by Bulgarian firms. Another hypothesis from Bellingcat links the attempted poisoning to a power struggle between Bulgarian oligarchs. Gebrev told the investigative journalist network that he did not export weapons to Ukraine, which has been in conflict with Russia since 2014. Western intelligence services connect 20 agents from Unit 29155 to the assassination of a Georgian citizen of Chechen origin in Berlin in August, 2019. The unit is also linked with the failed coup in Montenegro in 2016, which included a plan to assassinate the prime minister and a destabilization campaign in Moldova. In October of last year, The New York Times reported that Unit 29155 is part of a hybrid war orchestrated by the Russian government that mixes military confrontation with propaganda, hacking and disinformation. According to the newspaper, the members of the unit are working to destabilize Europe, and are trained in operations of subversion, sabotage and assassination. English version by Melissa Kitson . More information Three suspected Russian spies traveled to Barcelona in 2016 and 2017 Óscar López-Fonseca / María R. Sahuquillo | Madrid / Moscow Western intelligence services tracked Russian spy in Catalonia Óscar López-Fonseca / Lucía Abellán / María R. Sahuquillo | Madrid / Moscow Adheres to More information newsletter Sign up to EL PAÍS in English Edition bulletin Most viewed Why millennials are the new online dinosaurs European Medicines Agency warns of deaths due to prolonged use of drugs combining codeine and ibuprofen Calista Flockhart: the return of the misunderstood star who prioritized family over Hollywood glamor Rare diamond destined for a jewelry store has precious geological value Liv Tyler: Why the actress who was born to be a star turned her back on Hollywood Recomendaciones EL PAÍS Cursos Centros Francés online Inglés online Italiano online Alemán online Crucigramas & Juegos Cursos cursos Maestría en línea en Dirección de Marketing y Gestión Comercial cursos Maestría en línea en Administración y Dirección de Empresas cursos Maestría en línea en Business Administration cursos Maestría en línea en Inteligencia Artificial para la Transformación de Negocios Centros cursosonline Maestría en Digital Product Management 100% en línea cursosonline Curso Experto Universitario en Escritura, Estilo y Creatividad cursosonline Maestría en Marketing Digital 100% en línea cursosonline Maestría en Finanzas y Dirección Financiera en línea Francés online cursosingles Mejora tu francés con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfruta de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita de nuestro curso de francés ‘online’ Inglés online cursosingles Mejore su inglés con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Italiano online cursosingles Mejore su italiano con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Alemán online cursosingles Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online' cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas cursosingles Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado cursosingles Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso Crucigramas & Juegos juegos Crucigramas minis juegos Crucigramas Tarkus juegos Sudokus mini juegos Sopas de letras Recomendaciones EL PAÍS Cursos Centros Italiano online Francés online Alemán online Crucigramas & Juegos Cursos cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados del sector Salud cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Cultura y Humanidades cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Administración de Empresas cursos Descubre los cursos más demandados en Creatividad y Diseño Centros cursosonline Maestría Ejecutiva en Marketing Digital y e-Commerce 100% en línea cursosonline Descubre los cursos más demandados del sector Industrial cursosonline Maestría Ejecutiva en Coaching Integral y Organizacional 100% en línea cursosonline Descubre un completo Directorio de Centros de Formación Italiano online cursosingles Mejore su italiano con solo 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Francés online cursosingles Mejore su francés con solo 15 minutos al día cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Alemán online cursosingles Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online' cursosingles Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas. cursosingles Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y participación. cursosingles 21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya! Crucigramas & Juegos juegos ¡Disfruta con nuestros Crucigramas para expertos! juegos Resuelve los últimos Crucigramas de Mambrino juegos Juega a nuestros Sudoku para Expertos y mejora día a día tu nivel juegos Juega a las nuevas Sopas de letras clásicas y temáticas de EL PAÍS Abrir You have left X artículos gratis este mes Subscribe The first month for only 1€ Keep reading without limits Subscribe for 1€ Inicia sesión o regístrate gratis para continuar leyendo en incógnito Regístrate gratis Inicia sesión Suscríbete y lee sin límites Ver opciones de suscripción HOLA Subscribe for € 1 My activity My Subscription My personal data My newsletters Rights and de-registration Events and experiences logout change contrast: Buscar Select: - - - España América México Colombia Chile Argentina USA If you want to follow all the latest news without any limits, subscribe to EL PAÍS for just €1 the first month SUBSCRIBE NOW Spain Economy And Business Society Opinion International Culture Sports Science & Tech Travel USA EPS Podcasts Newsletter Follow on: 