AP NEWS  Listen Sections U.S. News World News Politics Sports Entertainment Business Technology Health Science Oddities Lifestyle Photography Videos Listen Sections AP Top News U.S. News World News Africa Asia Pacific Australia Europe Latin America Middle East Politics President Biden Midterm elections Congress Supreme Court Sports NFL College football MLB Postseason NBA Entertainment Film Reviews Movies Music Television Fashion Business U.S. economy Financial markets Videos Technology Health COVID-19 More Science AP Fact Check Lifestyle Religion Press Releases Climate and environment Oddities Photography Travel Trending News Russia-Ukraine war 2022 Midterm elections Elon Musk North Korea MLB Search ADVERTISEMENT Russia-Ukraine war https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine Click to copy Ukraine: Russian strikes kill at least 12 after bridge blast By JUSTIN SPIKE and ADAM SCHRECK October 9, 2022 GMT ZAPORIZHZHIA, Ukraine (AP) — A Russian missile barrage that crumbled apartment buildings and houses in Ukraine's city of Zaporizhzhia killed at least dozen people, Ukrainian officials said Sunday as Moscow strained to enforce its takeover of illegally annexed territory. ‘War crime:’ Industrial-scale destruction of Ukraine culture By HANNA ARHIROVA October 9, 2022 GMT KYIV, Ukraine (AP) — The exquisite golden tiara, inlaid with precious stones by master craftsmen some 1,500 years ago, was one of the world’s most valuable artifacts from the blood-letting rule of Attila the Hun, who rampaged with horseback warriors deep into Europe in the 5th century. Singer driven from Belarus for speaking out tries to rebuild By MARK PRATT October 9, 2022 GMT BOSTON (AP) — Ilya Silchukou was a cultural icon in his native Belarus, the lead soloist at the State Opera Bolshoi who represented his nation at official government functions at home and abroad and performed at opera houses across Europe. ADVERTISEMENT Some Ukrainians voice mixed reactions to Nobel prize winners By SABRA AYRES October 8, 2022 GMT KYIV, Ukraine (AP) — A day after receiving the Nobel Peace Prize with fellow human rights campaigners from Belarus and Russia, the head of the Ukrainian Center for Civil Liberties praised the work of her fellow laureates but cautioned against lumping the three together in a Cold War-like narrative. Ukrainian authorities take stock of ruins in liberated Lyman By JUSTIN SPIKE October 8, 2022 GMT LYMAN, Ukraine (AP) — Ukrainian authorities are just beginning to sift through the wreckage of the devastated city of Lyman in eastern Ukraine as they assess the humanitarian toll, and possibility of war crimes, from a months-long Russian occupation. Russia adds popular rapper, writer to “foreign agent” list October 8, 2022 GMT The Russian government on Friday designated a chart-topping rapper as a “foreign agent,”a label that has been widely seen as part of authorities' efforts to muzzle critical voices. Oxxxymiron, whose real name is Miron Fyodorov, was added to the justice ministry's “foreign agent” list alongside Dmitry Glukhovsky, a veteran science-fiction writer, and Alyona Popova, a prominent feminist and one-time face of Russia's campaign for a domestic violence law. Kyrgyzstan cancels Russian-led military drill on its land October 9, 2022 GMT The Central Asian nation of Kyrgyzstan on Sunday unilaterally cancelled joint military drills between the six nations comprising the Russia-led Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO), less than a day before they were due to start on its territory. Russian analyst set to face trial on charges of lying to FBI BY MATTHEW BARAKAT and ERIC TUCKER October 9, 2022 GMT ALEXANDRIA, Va. (AP) — Five years after the term “Steele dossier” entered the political lexicon, a think tank analyst who contributed to research about Donald Trump and Russia goes on trial Tuesday for lying to the FBI about his sources of information. Blast on bridge to Crimea hurts Russian supply lines, pride By ADAM SCHRECK and VASILISA STEPANENKO October 8, 2022 GMT KYIV, Ukraine (AP) — An explosion Saturday caused the partial collapse of a bridge linking the Crimean Peninsula with Russia, damaging an important supply artery for the Kremlin's faltering war effort in southern Ukraine and hitting a towering symbol of Russian power in the region. UN: Ukraine nuclear power plant loses external power link October 8, 2022 GMT BERLIN (AP) — Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, the biggest in Europe, has lost its last remaining external power source as a result of renewed shelling and is now relying on emergency diesel generators, the U.N. ADVERTISEMENT Yacht owned by sanctioned Russian tycoon docks in Hong Kong October 8, 2022 GMT HONG KONG (AP) — A superyacht connected to sanctioned Russian tycoon Alexey Mordashov has anchored in Hong Kong as Western governments move to seize yachts connected to Russian businessmen. The megayacht Nord, worth over $500 million, arrived in Hong Kong on Wednesday afternoon after traveling for over a week from Vladivostok, Russia, its last port of call. Bialiatski joins small group of jailed Nobel Peace laureates By KARL RITTER October 8, 2022 GMT STOCKHOLM (AP) — Belarussian pro-democracy campaigner Ales Bialiatski, who shared the Nobel Peace Prize with human rights groups in Russia and Ukraine, is the fourth person in the 121-year history of the Nobel Prizes to receive the award while in prison or detention. Multiple explosions rock eastern Ukraine city of Kharkiv By ADAM SCHRECK October 7, 2022 GMT KYIV, Ukraine (AP) — A series of explosions rocked the eastern Ukraine city of Kharkiv early Saturday, sending towering plumes of illuminated smoke into the sky and triggering a series of secondary explosions. Indictment says ex-NSA worker thought he was helping Russia By COLLEEN SLEVIN October 7, 2022 GMT DENVER (AP) — A former National Security Agency employee from Colorado charged with espionage thought he was sending classified information to Russia when he was talking to an undercover FBI agent, according to court documents released Friday. Europe praises, Belarus scorns Nobel for rights defenders By FRANK JORDANS October 7, 2022 GMT BERLIN (AP) — Officials in Europe and the U.S. praised the awarding of this year's Nobel Peace Prize to activists standing up for human rights and democracy in Russia, Belarus and Ukraine while authorities in Belarus scorned the move. Live Updates: Russia-Ukraine War By The Associated Press October 7, 2022 GMT KYIV — A Ukrainian official says the bodies of 530 people have been discovered in recaptured areas of Kharkiv region since Sept. 7. Ukraine's First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs Yevhen Yenin said Friday the bodies included those 225 women, 257 men and 19 children, while 29 bodies haven't been identified. Biden’s ‘Armageddon’ talk edges beyond bounds of US intel By AAMER MADHANI, ELLEN KNICKMEYER and JOSH BOAK October 7, 2022 GMT WASHINGTON (AP) — President Joe Biden’s warning that the world is at risk of a nuclear “Armageddon” was designed to send an unvarnished message that no one should underestimate the extraordinary danger if Russia deploys tactical nuclear weapons in its war against Ukraine, administration officials said Friday. ADVERTISEMENT Biden’s ‘Armageddon’ talk edges beyond bounds of US intel By AAMER MADHANI, ELLEN KNICKMEYER and JOSH BOAK October 7, 2022 GMT WASHINGTON (AP) — President Joe Biden’s warning that the world is at risk of a nuclear “Armageddon” was designed to send an unvarnished message that no one should underestimate the extraordinary danger if Russia deploys tactical nuclear weapons in its war against Ukraine, administration officials said Friday. Orthodox Church leads protest against Montenegro pride By PREDRAG MILIC October 7, 2022 GMT PODGORICA, Montenegro (AP) — Hundreds of people gathered Friday for a protest prayer led by the Serbian Orthodox Church in Montenegro against the holding of an LGBTQ pride march this weekend. The influential church has called its followers in Montenegro to join the prayer for “the sanctity of marriage and preservation of family” after organizing a similar gathering in neighboring Serbia ahead of a pan-European pride event there last month. Nobel Peace Prize to activists from Belarus, Russia, Ukraine By HANNA ARHIROVA, FRANK JORDANS and VANESSA GERA October 7, 2022 GMT KYIV, Ukraine (AP) — Human rights activists from Ukraine, Belarus and Russia won the Nobel Peace Prize on Friday, a strong rebuke to Russian President Vladimir Putin, whose invasion of Ukraine ruptured decades of nearly uninterrupted peace in Europe, and to the Belarusian president, his authoritarian ally. Liverpool to host 2023 Eurovision Song Contest for Ukraine October 7, 2022 GMT LONDON (AP) — The 2023 Eurovision Song Contest will be staged in the English city of Liverpool, the BBC said Friday, after Britain was asked to hold the event on behalf of designated host country Ukraine. No summit breakthrough, EU struggles with gas price cap plan By LORNE COOK, KAREL JANICEK and SYLVIE CORBET October 7, 2022 GMT PRAGUE (AP) — European Union leaders struggled Friday to bridge significant differences over a natural gas price cap as winter approaches and Russia’s war in Ukraine fuels a major energy crisis, driving up prices for consumers and businesses. SpaceX delivers Russian, Native American women to station By MARCIA DUNN October 7, 2022 GMT CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) — A Russian cosmonaut who caught a U.S. lift to the International Space Station arrived at her new home Thursday for a five-month stay, accompanied by a Japanese astronaut and two from NASA, including the first Native American woman in space. EXPLAINER: How will OPEC+ cuts affect gas prices, inflation? By DAVID McHUGH October 7, 2022 GMT FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) — Major oil-producing countries led by Saudi Arabia and Russia have decided to slash the amount of oil they deliver to the global economy. ADVERTISEMENT UN rights body agrees to appoint expert to scrutinize Russia By JAMEY KEATEN October 7, 2022 GMT GENEVA (AP) — The U.N.'s top human rights body voted Friday to appoint an independent expert to step up scrutiny of Russia's rights record at home as arbitrary arrests, a crackdown on dissenting voices and limits on free speech worsen during the war in Ukraine. Leader of Belarus gifts Putin a tractor for 70th birthday October 7, 2022 GMT ST. PETERSBURG, Russia (AP) — Russian President Vladimir Putin got an unusual gift for his 70th birthday on Friday: a tractor. Putin’s path: from pledges of stability to nuclear threats By The Associated Press October 7, 2022 GMT As he turns 70 on Friday, Russian President Vladimir Putin finds himself in the eye of a storm of his own making: His army is suffering humiliating defeats in Ukraine. Hundreds of thousands of Russians are fleeing his mobilization order, and his top lieutenants are publicly insulting military leaders. A quick look at the 2022 Nobel Prizes By The Associated Press October 7, 2022 GMT STOCKHOLM (AP) — All but one of the 2022 Nobel Prizes have now been announced. Here’s a look at which prizes have been announced so far, which is coming up and what’s next for the winners. Macron at Europe’s center stage with new summit initiative By SYLVIE CORBET October 7, 2022 GMT PRAGUE (AP) — Smile flashing, giving a thumbs-up, Emmanuel Macron appears at Europe’s center stage again — literally. The photo of over 40 European leaders surrounding the French president Thursday ensured a symbolic image of unity of the continent faced with Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, making the inaugural summit of the European Political Community an initial success for Macron, who launched the idea a few months ago. Today in History: October 7, Fox News Channel’s debut By The Associated Press October 7, 2022 GMT Today in History  Today is Friday, Oct. 7, the 280th day of 2022. There are 85 days left in the year.  A bump and a miss: Saudi oil cut slaps down Biden’s outreach By ELLEN KNICKMEYER, CHRIS MEGERIAN and KEVIN FREKING October 7, 2022 GMT WASHINGTON (AP) — President Joe Biden on Thursday effectively acknowledged the failure of one of his biggest and most humiliating foreign policy gambles: a fist-bump with the de facto leader of Saudi Arabia, the crown prince associated with human rights abuses. ADVERTISEMENT 2 Russians seek asylum after reaching remote Alaska island By BECKY BOHRER October 7, 2022 GMT JUNEAU, Alaska (AP) — Two Russians who said they fled the country to avoid military service have requested asylum in the U.S. after landing in a small boat on a remote Alaska island in the Bering Sea, U.S. Biden: IBM investment to help in tech competition with China By AAMER MADHANI and JOSH BOAK October 7, 2022 GMT POUGHKEEPSIE, N.Y. (AP) — President Joe Biden predicted Thursday a $20 billion investment by IBM in New York's Hudson River Valley will help give the United States a technological edge against China, hailing the expansion during an appearance with two House Democrats in competitive races in next month's critical elections. Russia strikes Ukraine housing; detains refugees at border By ADAM SCHRECK October 6, 2022 GMT KYIV, Ukraine (AP) — Russian missiles hit apartment buildings in the southern Ukrainian city of Zaporizhzhia on Thursday, killing at least seven people, with at least five others missing, in a region that Moscow has illegally annexed, a local official said. US kills 3 Islamic State leaders in 2 Syria operations By LOLITA C. BALDOR October 6, 2022 GMT WASHINGTON (AP) — U.S. forces killed three senior Islamic State leaders in two separate military operations in Syria Thursday, including a rare ground raid in a portion of the northeast that is controlled by the Syrian regime, U.S. Europe hails united stand over Russia’s war in Ukraine By LORNE COOK, KAREL JANICEK and SYLVIE CORBET October 6, 2022 GMT PRAGUE (AP) — Leaders across Europe hailed on Thursday their united front against Russia’s war on Ukraine at a summit that also saw the heads of old foes Turkey and Armenia meet face-to-face for the first time since they agreed last year to put decades of bitterness behind them. Live Updates: Russia-Ukraine War By The Associated Press October 6, 2022 GMT KYIV, Ukraine — The head of the U.S. Agency for International Development has met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to discuss Ukraine’s humanitarian, economic and development needs. At a briefing in Kyiv on Thursday, USAID director Samantha Power said that “this war will be won on the battlefield, but it is also being won in Ukraine’s ongoing efforts to strengthen its democracy and its economy.” Djokovic beats Van de Zandschulp to reach Astana quarters October 6, 2022 GMT ASTANA, Kazakhstan (AP) — Add Botic van de Zandschulp to the long list of players to have been schooled by Novak Djokovic.  Djokovic eased past Van de Zandschulp 6-3, 6-1 on Thursday in his first career meeting with the 27-year-old Dutchman to reach the quarterfinals of the Astana Open. Protesters allege pro-Russia Bosnian Serb leader rigged vote October 6, 2022 GMT SARAJEVO, Bosnia (AP) — Several thousand people in Bosnia joined an opposition protest Thursday against a result in the country's general election last weekend, alleging a pro-Russia Bosnian Serb leader rigged the vote to win the position he sought. Russia seeks secret UN vote on condemning Ukraine annexation By EDITH M. LEDERER October 6, 2022 GMT UNITED NATIONS (AP) — Russia called for a secret ballot vote next week on a Western-backed resolution that would condemn its “attempted illegal annexation” of part of four Ukrainian regions and demand that Moscow immediately reverse its actions. Germans warned: Gas use is too high to avoid energy crisis October 6, 2022 GMT BERLIN (AP) — Germans are using too much gas to avoid a potential energy “emergency” this winter, the head of Germany’s national network regulator warned Thursday. “Gas consumption increased by too much last week,” said Klaus Mueller, head of Germany’s network agency. Russia charges jailed Kremlin critic with treason October 6, 2022 GMT MOSCOW (AP) — Russian authorities have brought treason charges against a prominent opposition activist who was jailed for allegedly spreading “false information” about Russia’s military operation in Ukraine. IMF warns of higher recession risk and darker global outlook By FATIMA HUSSEIN October 6, 2022 GMT WASHINGTON (AP) — Two principal economists painted very different pictures Thursday of what the global economy will look like in the coming years.  Kristalina Georgieva, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, told an audience at Georgetown University on Thursday that the IMF is once again lowering its projections for global economic growth in 2023, projecting world economic growth lower by $4 trillion through 2026. France’s Macron opposes building new Iberia gas pipeline October 6, 2022 GMT PRAGUE (AP) — French President Emmanuel Macron said his government does not support the idea of building a new pipeline to pump natural gas between the Iberian Peninsula and the rest of Europe despite the continent's energy crisis. 2021 Nobel Peace Prize winners have faced a year of battles By LYNN BERRY and JIM GOMEZ October 6, 2022 GMT WASHINGTON (AP) — Winning the Nobel Peace Prize often provides a boost for a grassroots activist or international group working for peace and human rights, opening doors and elevating the causes for which they fight. EXPLAINER: Russia’s military woes mount amid Ukraine attacks By The Associated Press October 6, 2022 GMT Even as the Kremlin moved to absorb parts of Ukraine in a sharp escalation of the conflict, the Russian military suffered new defeats that highlighted its deep problems on the battlefield and opened rifts at the top of the Russian government. Sweden seizes evidence at Baltic Sea pipeline leak site By JAN M. OLSEN October 6, 2022 GMT COPENHAGEN, Denmark (AP) — Sweden’s domestic security agency said Thursday that its preliminary investigation of leaks from two Russian gas pipelines in the Baltic Sea “has strengthened the suspicions of serious sabotage” as the cause and a prosecutor said evidence at the site has been seized. Ukraine leader says Putin wouldn’t survive nuclear attack By ROD McGUIRK October 6, 2022 GMT CANBERRA, Australia (AP) — Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said on Thursday it was “hard to say” whether the risk of nuclear war had increased with his military's territorial gains, but he remains confident his Russian counterpart would not survive such as escalation in hostilities. Prolonged drought brings famine, death and fear to Somalia By CARA ANNA October 6, 2022 GMT Putin signs annexation of Ukrainian regions as losses mount By ADAM SCHRECK October 5, 2022 GMT KYIV, Ukraine (AP) — Russian President Vladimir Putin signed the final papers Wednesday to annex four regions of Ukraine while his military struggled to control the new territory that was added in violation of international laws. ADVERTISEMENT AP NEWS Top Stories Video Contact Us Accessibility Statement Cookie Settings Download AP NEWS Connect with the definitive source for global and local news More from AP ap.org AP Insights AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight AP Explore AP Books AP Stylebook Follow AP The Associated Press About Contact Customer Support Careers Terms & Conditions Privacy All contents © copyright    2022    The Associated Press.     All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
