Skip to main content Reuters home World Business Legal Markets Breakingviews Technology Investigations More My View Register Europe 3 minute read September 22, 2022 4:41 PM UTC Last Updated  ago Finland mulls barring Russians from entering as border traffic grows By  Essi Lehto 1/2 Cars queue to enter Finland from Russia at Finland's most southern crossing point Vaalimaa, around three hour drive from Saint Petersburg, in Vaalimaa, Finland September 22, 2022. REUTERS/Essi Lehto Read More VAALIMAA, Finland, Sept 22 (Reuters) - Finland said on Thursday it was considering barring most Russians from entering the country as traffic across the border from its eastern neighbour "intensified" following President Vladimir Putin's order for a partial military mobilisation. Finnish land border crossings have remained among the few entry points into Europe for Russians after a string of Western countries shut both physical frontiers and their air space to Russian planes in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Prime Minister Sanna Marin said on Thursday the government was assessing risks posed by individuals travelling through Finland, and was considering ways to sharply reduce Russian transit. Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com Register "The government's will is very clear, we believe Russian tourism (to Finland) must be stopped, as well as transit through Finland," Marin told reporters. "I believe the situation needs to be reassessed after yesterday's news," she added, referring to Putin's partial mobilisation order. The Russian president's announcement raised fears that some men of fighting age would not be allowed to leave Russia and prompted one-way flights out of the country to sell out fast.   read more  Finland opted to keep its frontier with Russia open following Moscow's Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine although it has cut back the number of consular appointments available to Russian travellers seeking visas.   read more  BORDER At the Vaalimaa border crossing, roughly three hours' drive from Russia's second-largest city St Petersburg, three lanes of cars each stretched for 300-400 metres (yards) at around 1:15 p.m. local time (1015 GMT), a border official told Reuters. The crossing is one of nine on Finland's 1,300-km (800-mile) border with Russia, the longest in the European Union. "Traffic at the Finnish-Russian border intensified during the night," the border guard's head of international affairs, Matti Pitkaniitty, said in a tweet. He told Reuters that border guards were ready at the nine checkpoints. Although traffic from Russia was busier than normal, the border guards said in a statement that it had not changed "alarmingly" in recent days compared with pre-pandemic times. The statement warned that "incorrect and misleading" information was circulating on social media. At around 1730 local time (1530 GMT), traffic continued to flow, according to a Reuters witness, with cars stretching over four lanes, each for some 150 metres. A 34-year-old Russian man called Nikita, who did not give his last name, told Reuters he was going on holiday in southern Europe and said he was not sure if he would return to Russia. "I will make the decision when I'm there," he said upon crossing the border. Border officials told Reuters a significant amount of Russians arriving were travelling on tourist visas. Tourists must present visas and documents that prove their onward itineraries such as plane tickets, hotel bookings or an invitation from a friend. As long as tourists can credibly show plans for return, such as return tickets, the border guards cannot check whether they actually plan to return, Elias Laine, the Vaalimaa border station's deputy chief, told Reuters. Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, the other EU countries that border Russian territory, began turning away Russian citizens from crossings at midnight on Monday, saying they should not travel while their country is at war with Ukraine.   read more  The three Baltic nations will offer no refuge to any Russians fleeing Moscow's mobilisation of troops, their ministers said on Wednesday.   read more  Pitkaniitty said 4,824 Russians arrived in Finland via the eastern border on Wednesday, up from 3,133 a week earlier. In far northern Norway there had been no changes in the number of Russians crossing, a police official told Reuters. Norway is not a member of the EU. Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com Register Reporting by Stine Jacobsen in Copenhagen, Essi Lehto in Helsinki, Milla Nissi in Gdansk, Gwladys Fouche in Oslo and Andrius Sytas in Vilnius; writing by Stine Jacobsen and Gwladys Fouche, Editing by Terje Solsvik, Kim Coghill, Mark Heinrich, Catherine Evans, William Maclean Our Standards:  The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Europe Putin orders more security for Crimea bridge, energy supplies, Interfax reports , article with image Europe  ·  October 8, 2022 Russian President Vladimir Putin on Saturday ordered tighter security for the bridge from Russia to Crimea as well as the infrastructure supplying electricity and natural gas to the peninsula, Interfax said. Europe Ukraine presidential advisor says Crimea bridge 'must be destroyed' following damage , article with image October 8, 2022 Macro Matters Ukraine's economy shrank by 30% in first three quarters of 2022 , article with gallery October 8, 2022 Europe Zaporizhzhia plant down to diesel generators as shelling cuts power essential for cooling , article with image October 8, 2022 Europe German state vote tests support for Berlin's crisis management , article with gallery 12:43 PM UTC Site Index Browse World Business Legal Markets Breakingviews Technology Investigations , opens new tab Lifestyle About Reuters About Reuters , opens new tab Careers , opens new tab Reuters News Agency , opens new tab Brand Attribution Guidelines , opens new tab Reuters Leadership , opens new tab Reuters Fact Check , opens new tab Reuters Diversity Report , opens new tab Stay Informed Download the App , opens new tab Newsletters , opens new tab Information you can trust Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers. Follow Us Thomson Reuters Products Westlaw , opens new tab Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology. Onesource , opens new tab The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs. Checkpoint , opens new tab The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals. Refinitiv Products Refinitiv Workspace , opens new tab  Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile. Refinitiv Data Catalogue , opens new tab  Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and insights from worldwide sources and experts. Refinitiv World-Check , opens new tab Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks. Advertise With Us , opens new tab Advertising Guidelines , opens new tab Cookies , opens new tab Terms of Use , opens new tab Privacy , opens new tab Digital Accessibility , opens new tab Corrections , opens new tab Site Feedback , opens new tab All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes.  See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays . © 2022 Reuters.  All rights reserved