 1 weather alerts 1 closings/delays Watch Now Watch Now 1 weather alerts 1 closings/delays Menu Search site Watch Now Watch Now Close x Live Watch Alerts Search site Go Link without subnavigation News Links within a subnav group Local News National News FOX 13 News 360 Health Politics Sports Salt Lake City Int'l Airport Link without subnavigation Weather Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Traffic Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation FOX 13 Investigates Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Positively Utah Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Good Day Utah Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Community Links within a subnav group Zero Hunger Hero We're Open Recipes Zero Fatalities UCAIR Give a Child a Book Link without subnavigation Give A Child A Book Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation The Place Links within a subnav group Funding Your Future Be a Guest on The PLACE doTERRA SelectHealth Link without subnavigation Contests Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Dream Team Links within a subnav group Nominate Someone for a FOX 13 Dream Team Surprise! Link without subnavigation About Us Links within a subnav group Staff Bios Contact Us TV Listings Seen on FOX 13 News Jobs at FOX 13 Moving Forward Link without subnavigation Healthier Together Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Brand Spotlight Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Advertise with Us Links within a subnav group Sign In Newsletters Sign Out Manage Emails Apps Careers Search Link without subnavigation Local News Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation FOX 13 Investigates Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation The PLACE Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Weather Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Contests Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Dream Team Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Home Pros Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Positively Utah Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Your BeUTAHful Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Two Americas Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Give A Child A Book Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Freaky Friday Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Hurricane Ian Donations Links within a subnav group Quick links... Local News FOX 13 Investigates The PLACE Weather Contests Dream Team Home Pros Positively Utah Your BeUTAHful Two Americas Give A Child A Book Freaky Friday Hurricane Ian Donations 1 weather alerts 1 closings/delays News National News Actions Facebook Tweet Email Ukraine makes advances, claims it reached Russian border AP A Ukrainian soldier passes by a Russian tank damaged in a battle in a just freed territory on the road to Balakleya in the Kharkiv region, Ukraine, Sunday, Sept. 11, 2022. (AP Photo) altFormatsOnly By: The Associated Press Posted at 7:27 AM, Sep 12, 2022 and last updated 2022-09-12 09:27:56-04 KHARKIV, Ukraine (AP) — Ukraine claimed Monday that it took several more villages, pushing Russian forces right back to the northeastern border, part of a lightning counteroffensive that forced Moscow to withdraw troops from some areas in recent days. After months of little discernible movement on the battlefield, Kyiv’s sudden momentum has lifted Ukrainian morale and provoked outrage in Russia and even some rare public criticism of President Vladimir Putin’s war. As Ukrainian flags began to flutter over one city emerging from Russian occupation, a local leader alleged the Kremlin's troops had committed atrocities against civilians there similar to those in other places seized by Moscow. “In some areas of the front, our defenders reached the state border with the Russian Federation,” said Oleh Syniehubov, the governor of the northeastern Kharkiv region. Over the weekend, the Russian Defense Ministry said troops would be pulled from two areas in that region to regroup in the eastern region of Donetsk. It was not yet clear if Ukraine's latest blitz could signal a turning point in the war — though some analysts suggested it might be while also cautioning there would likely be months more fighting. Momentum has switched back and forth before. Still, the mood was jubilant across the country. The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said Monday that its troops had liberated more than 20 settlements within the past day. In Kharkiv, authorities hailed some return to normalcy, noting that power and water had been restored to about 80% of the region's population following Russian attacks on infrastructure that knocked out electricity in many places across Ukraine. “You are heroes!!!” wrote Kharkiv Mayor Ihor Terekhov early in the morning on Telegram, referring to those restoring utilities. “Thanks to everyone who did everything possible on this most difficult night for Kharkiv to normalize the life of the city as soon as possible.” The buoyant mood was also captured by a defiant President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on social media late Sunday. “Do you still think you can intimidate, break us, force us to make concessions?" Zelenskyy asked. “Cold, hunger, darkness and thirst for us are not as scary and deadly as your ‘friendship’ and brotherhood.’" In the end, he exclaimed: "We will be with gas, lights, water and food … and WITHOUT you!” Meanwhile, in Russia, there were some signs of disarray as Russian military bloggers and patriotic commentators chastised the Kremlin for failing to mobilize more forces and take stronger action against Ukraine. Russia has continuously stopped short of calling its invasion of Ukraine a war, instead using the description “special military operation.” Instead of a mass mobilization that could spur civil discontent and protest, it has relied on a limited contingent of volunteers. Ramzan Kadyrov, the Moscow-backed leader of the Russian region of Chechnya, publicly criticized the Russian Defense Ministry for what he called “mistakes” that made the Ukrainian blitz possible. Even more notable, such criticism seeped onto state-controlled Russian TV. “People who convinced President Putin that the operation will be fast and effective ... these people really set up all of us,” Boris Nadezhdin, a former parliament member, said on a talk show on NTV television. “We’re now at the point here we have to understand that it’s absolutely impossible to defeat Ukraine using these resources and colonial war methods.” Yet even amid Ukraine's ebullience, the casualties kept mounting. Ukraine’s presidential office said Monday that at least four civilians were killed and 11 others were wounded in a series of Russian attacks in nine regions of the country. The U.N. Human Rights Office said last week that 5,767 civilians were killed so far. In a reminder of the war's toll, a council member in Izium — one of the areas that Russia said it has withdrawn troops from — accused those forces of killing civilians and other committing atrocities. “Russian troops committed crimes and tried to hide them,” Maksym Strelnikov said. His claims could not immediately be verified. Izium was a major base for Russian forces in the northeastern Kharkiv region. The first Ukrainian flag was raised over the city on Sept. 10, according to Strelnikov, and more have popped up across the whole city. Residents, some wrapped in the country's blue-and-yellow flag, happily greeted Ukrainian forces, offering them food. The Russians continued shelling Nikopol across the Dnieper from the Zaporizhzhia power plant, damaging several buildings there and leaving Europe's largest nuclear facility in a precarious position . The last operational reactor in that plant has been shut down in a bid to prevent a radiation disaster as fighting raged nearby. While the war likely will stretch into next year, the Washington-based Institute for the Study of War said Monday that “Ukraine has turned the tide of this war in its favor” by effectively using Western-supplied weapons like the long-range HIMARS missile system and strong battlefield tactics. “Kyiv will likely increasingly dictate the location and nature of the major fighting.” The British Defense Ministry, meanwhile, said it would likely further deteriorate the trust Russian forces have in their commanders and put Moscow's troops on the back foot. Some analysts praised Ukraine’s initial move on the southern Kherson area for drawing the attention of enemy troops there, before pouncing on more depleted Russian lines in the northeast. Even around Kherson, Russia is struggling to bring forces across the Dnipro River to stop the Ukrainian offensive there, the British military said. Report a typo Copyright 2022 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Sign up for the Breaking News Newsletter and receive up to date information. now signed up to receive the Breaking NewsNewsletter. Click here to manage all Newsletters altFormatsOnly About Us Watch FOX 13 News on your favorite streaming device anytime, anywhere Link without subnavigation News Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Traffic Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Weather Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Community Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Support Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Sitemap Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Advertise with Us Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Privacy Policy Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Privacy Center Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Terms of Use Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation EEO Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation FCC Public Files Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation FCC Application Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Public File Contact Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Accessibility Statement Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Closed Captioning Contact Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Careers Links within a subnav group Social fox13newsutah fox13now fox13 Scripps Local Media © 2022 Scripps Media, Inc Give Light and the People Will Find Their Own Way 