 1 weather alerts 1 closings/delays Watch Now Watch Now 1 weather alerts 1 closings/delays Menu Search site Watch Now Watch Now Close x Live Watch Alerts Search site Go Link without subnavigation News Links within a subnav group Local News National News FOX 13 News 360 Health Politics Sports Salt Lake City Int'l Airport Link without subnavigation Weather Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Traffic Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation FOX 13 Investigates Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Positively Utah Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Good Day Utah Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Community Links within a subnav group Zero Hunger Hero We're Open Recipes Zero Fatalities UCAIR Give a Child a Book Link without subnavigation Give A Child A Book Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation The Place Links within a subnav group Funding Your Future Be a Guest on The PLACE doTERRA SelectHealth Link without subnavigation Contests Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Dream Team Links within a subnav group Nominate Someone for a FOX 13 Dream Team Surprise! Link without subnavigation About Us Links within a subnav group Staff Bios Contact Us TV Listings Seen on FOX 13 News Jobs at FOX 13 Moving Forward Link without subnavigation Healthier Together Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Brand Spotlight Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Advertise with Us Links within a subnav group Sign In Newsletters Sign Out Manage Emails Apps Careers Search Link without subnavigation Local News Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation FOX 13 Investigates Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation The PLACE Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Weather Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Contests Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Dream Team Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Home Pros Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Positively Utah Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Your BeUTAHful Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Two Americas Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Give A Child A Book Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Freaky Friday Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Hurricane Ian Donations Links within a subnav group Quick links... Local News FOX 13 Investigates The PLACE Weather Contests Dream Team Home Pros Positively Utah Your BeUTAHful Two Americas Give A Child A Book Freaky Friday Hurricane Ian Donations 1 weather alerts 1 closings/delays News National News Russia-Ukraine War Actions Facebook Tweet Email US to send $3 billion in aid to Ukraine as war hits 6 months Alex Brandon/AP FILE - U.S. Air Force Staff Sgt. Cody Brown, right, with the 436th Aerial Port Squadron, checks pallets of 155 mm shells ultimately bound for Ukraine, April 29, 2022, at Dover Air Force Base, Del. As Russia's war on Ukraine drags on, U.S. security assistance is shifting to a longer-term campaign that will likely keep more American military troops in Europe into the future, including imminent plans to announce an additional roughly $3 billion in aid to train and equip Ukrainian forces to fight for years to come, U.S. officials said. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon, File) altFormatsOnly Posted at 11:01 AM, Aug 23, 2022 and last updated 2022-08-23 13:01:43-04 As Russia's war on Ukraine drags on, U.S. security assistance is shifting to a longer-term campaign that will likely keep more American military troops in Europe into the future, including imminent plans to announce an additional roughly $3 billion in aid to train and equip Ukrainian forces to fight for years to come, U.S. officials said. U.S. officials told The Associated Press that the package is expected to be announced Wednesday, the day the war hits the six-month mark and Ukraine celebrates its independence day. The money will fund contracts for drones, weapons and other equipment that may not see the battlefront for a year or two, they said. The total of the aid package — which is being provided under the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative — could change overnight, but not likely by much. Several officials spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the aid before its public release. Unlike most previous packages, the new funding is largely aimed at helping Ukraine secure its medium- to long-term defense posture, according to officials familiar with the matter. Earlier shipments, most of them done under Presidential Drawdown Authority, have focused on Ukraine’s more immediate needs for weapons and ammunition and involved materiel that the Pentagon already has in stock that can be shipped in short order. In addition to providing longer-term assistance that Ukraine can use for potential future defense needs, the new package is intended to reassure Ukrainian officials that the United States intends to keep up its support, regardless of the day-to-day back and forth of the conflict, the officials said. NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg noted the more extended focus Tuesday as he reaffirmed the alliance’s support for the conflict-torn country. “Winter is coming, and it will be hard, and what we see now is a grinding war of attrition. This is a battle of wills, and a battle of logistics. Therefore we must sustain our support for Ukraine for the long term, so that Ukraine prevails as a sovereign, independent nation,” Stoltenberg said, speaking at a virtual conference about Crimea, organized by Ukraine. Six months after Russia invaded, the war has slowed to a grind, as both sides trade combat strikes and small advances in the east and south. Both sides have seen thousands of troops killed and injured, as Russia’s bombardment of cities has killed countless innocent civilians. There are fears that Russia will intensify attacks on civilian infrastructure and government facilities in Ukraine in the coming days because of the independence holiday and the six-month anniversary of the invasion. Late Monday, the U.S. Embassy in Ukraine and the State Department issued a new security alert for Ukraine that repeated a call for Americans in the country to leave due to the danger. “Given Russia’s track record in Ukraine, we are concerned about the continued threat that Russian strikes pose to civilians and civilian infrastructure,” it said. To date, the U.S. has provided about $10.6 billion in military aid to Ukraine since the beginning of the Biden administration, including 19 packages of weapons taken directly from Defense Department stocks since August 2021. U.S. defense leaders are also eyeing plans that will expand training for Ukrainian troops outside their country, and for militaries on Europe’s eastern and southern flanks that feel most threatened by Russia’s aggression. Report a typo Copyright 2022 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Sign up for the Breaking News Newsletter and receive up to date information. now signed up to receive the Breaking NewsNewsletter. Click here to manage all Newsletters altFormatsOnly About Us Watch FOX 13 News on your favorite streaming device anytime, anywhere Link without subnavigation News Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Traffic Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Weather Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Community Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Support Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Sitemap Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Advertise with Us Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Privacy Policy Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Privacy Center Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Terms of Use Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation EEO Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation FCC Public Files Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation FCC Application Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Public File Contact Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Accessibility Statement Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Closed Captioning Contact Links within a subnav group Link without subnavigation Careers Links within a subnav group Social fox13newsutah fox13now fox13 Scripps Local Media © 2022 Scripps Media, Inc Give Light and the People Will Find Their Own Way 